SOURCE: https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/people-group/
============================================================

People Group
The People Group at GitLab supports all GitLab team members through the complete team member lifecycle.
Welcome
Welcome to the People Group handbook! You should be able to find answers to most of your questions here.
People Group Vision
The People Group works together to establish a high performance and results driven culture where a diverse and inclusive team can experience a meaningful career.
We support a culture that enables people to do their best work and advance their careers while fully contributing to advancing GitLab’s business results. We hire, promote, and recognize team members who best live our values.
The People Group strategy is aligned with
GitLab’s Company Strategy
through a focus on supporting GitLab’s ability to deliver on our FY27 Plan while setting the foundations to build a generational company.
Connect with us
You can also check out pages related to People Group in the section below. If you can not find what you are looking for please do the following:
The People Group
holds several subprojects to organize the people group; please create an issue in the appropriate subproject or
general
if you’re not sure. Please use confidential issues for topics that should only be visible to GitLab team-members. Similarly, if your question can be shared please use a public issue. Tag
@gl-people-ops-team
or
@gl-hiring
so the appropriate team members can follow up.
Please note that not all People Group projects can be shared in an issue due to confidentiality. When we cannot be completely transparent, we will share what we can in the issue description, and explain why.
Employment Issue Tracker
: Only Onboarding, Offboarding and Transition Issue Templates are held in this subproject, and they are created by the People Operations Team only. Interview Training Issues, are held in the
Training project
and created by the Talent Acquisition team. Please see the
interviewing page
for more info.
People Operations
; Please create a case for the People Operations team with any questions that do not seem appropriate for the issue tracker within
HelpLab
- choosing the applicable template/category applicable. For access requests regarding Google or Slack groups, please create an issue here:
https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/team-member-epics/access-requests
. For questions that relate to Payroll, Expenses or Equity, please direct your question to the respective teams in HelpLab. Regarding questions for our recruiting team, including questions relating to access, or anything to do with Greenhouse, referrals, interviewing, or interview training please use the
#talent-acquisition
channel.
If you need to discuss something that is confidential/private (including sensitive matters surrounding your team), you can open a
HelpLab
Case the Team Member Relations team. Any team member, regardless of location, can use this form to discuss a private sensitive matter.
If you need help with any technical items, for example, 2FA, please ask in
#it_help
. The channel topic explains how to create an issue. For urgent matters you can mention
@it-ops-team
.
The People Group is here to support GitLab’s
mission
by bringing top talent into GitLab, and then enabling team members to make meaningful contributions in alignment with our
values
.  Please don’t hesitate to
reach out
with questions or ask for support!
Need Help?
In Case of Emergency
If team members need emergency support from GitLab’s People team, please create a case in
HelpLab
. HelpLab is monitored during most working hours and is the centralized support platform for all people-related queries. Read more about our
People Operations methods of engagement
.
We trust team members to always use their best judgement when facing any emergency. Team members are encouraged to dial their country’s emergency services number for any critical and/or medical emergency. In the case that other team members are aware of a team member’s emergency (during a Zoom call for example) and wish to call that country’s emergency services on the original team member’s behalf, we do not recommend this as only certain People Ops team members have access to team member addresses and we would take on the role of communicating with emergency services, should this extremely rare situation arise.
In the event a team member is in an unsafe situation due to a natural disaster, please see the
Disaster Recovery Plan
page.
How to Report Violations
As stated in the
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
, we have a section related to reporting violations. GitLab has engaged Navex to provide EthicsPoint, a comprehensive and confidential reporting tool, an anonymous ethics hotline for all team members. The purpose of the service is to insure that any team member wishing to submit a report anonymously about conduct addressed in the
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
can do so without the fear of retaliation.
In addition to EthicsPoint, GitLab has engaged Lighthouse Services to provide an anonymous reporting hotline for all team members to submit reports regarding team member relations. Reports may cover but are not limited to the following topics: wrongful discharge or disciplinary action,
sexual harassment
, discrimination, conduct violations, alcohol and substance abuse, threats, improper conduct, violation of company policy.
Please note that the information provided by you may be the basis for an internal and/or external investigation into the issue you are reporting and your anonymity will be protected by Lighthouse to the extent possible by law. However, your identity may become known during the course of the investigation because of the information you have provided. Reports are submitted by Lighthouse to a company designee for investigation according to our company policies.
Lighthouse has a toll free number and other methods of reporting are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week for use by team members.
Website:
https://www.lighthouse-services.com/gitlab
USA Telephone:
English speaking USA and Canada: 833-480-0010
Spanish speaking USA and Canada: 800-216-1288
French speaking Canada: 855-725-0002
Spanish speaking Mexico: 01-800-681-5340
All other countries telephone: +1-800-603-2869
E-mail:
reports@lighthouse-services.com
(must include company name with report)
Fax: (215) 689-3885 (must include company name with report)
In addition to EthicsPoint and Lighthouse, please review the
Team Member Relations
page. GitLab also offers a
Harassment Complaint Form
that any team member may use to document any instance of any type of workplace harassment. Simply copy the form, fill it out with your information and send it to our Team Member Relations Specialist at
teammemberrelations@gitlab.com
.
How to reach the right member of the People Group
This table lists the aliases to use, when you are looking to reach a specific group in the People Group. It will also ensure you get the right attention, from the right team member, faster.
Subgroup
GitLab handle
Email
Slack Group handle/channel
Greenhouse
Issue tracker
People Business Partners
@gl-peoplepartners,
Please add the
pbp-attention
label to any issue or MR that requires PBP review, collaboration, or feedback
peoplepartners@ gitlab.com
@peoplepartners
n/a
Total Rewards
@gl-total-rewards
total-rewards@ gitlab.com
HelpLab
n/a
People Compliance Partner
TBA
HelpLab
TBA
n/a
People Operations Team
@gl-people-ops-team
HelpLab
@people-ops-team
n/a
Team Member Relations
@atisdale-ext
teammemberrelations@gitlab.com
n/a
n/a
Absence Management Team
@lyndemeiers
leaves@gitlab.com
HelpLab
n/a
People Group Engineering
@gl-people-engineering
No email group, create issues for People Engineering
here
#peopleops-eng
n/a
https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-com/people-group/peopleops-eng/-/boards/3941171
Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging
No alias yet, @mention the
Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging Partner
diversityinclusion@ gitlab.com
n/a
n/a
Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging issue tracker
Learning and Development
@gitlab-com/people-group/learning-development
learning@ gitlab.com
#learninganddevelopment
n/a
L&D Issue Board
Talent Acquisition
@gl-talent-acquisition
recruiting@ gitlab.com
@talent-acquisition-team
n/a
Employer Branding
No alias yet, @mention the
Senior Talent Brand Manager
employmentbranding@ gitlab.com
n/a
n/a
Candidate Experience Specialist
@gitlab-com/gl-ces
ces@ gitlab.com
@ces
@ces*
Talent Acquisition Operations and Insights
@gl-talent acquisitionops
talentacquisitionops@ gitlab.com
@talent-acquisition-ops
@talent-acquisitionops
Sourcing
@gl-sourcingteam
n/a
@sourcingteam
n/a
People Analytics
No alias, create issues for People Analytics
here
n/a
@peopleanalyticstriage
n/a
People Analytics Issue Board
People Group Program Calendar for Managers and Team Members
On [this page]https://theloop.gitlab.com/home you can find our People Manager Calendar and All Team Member Calendar. The goal of these pages is to ensure that team members and People Managers can plan ahead and have an overview of upcoming programs and timelines.
Support provided by the Legal, Employment team to the People Group
The Legal-Employment team, collaborates with and provides support to the People team in many functional areas.
Email approval from the VP of Legal, Employment is required prior to engagement with external counsel to allow for accurate tracking of costs.
Invoices will be sent to VP of Legal, Employment, for approval.
When support from the People Operations team is required by the Legal, Employment team
The Legal, Employment team may require support from the People Operations team, for communicating a country specific legal requirement to team members, to consult with team members in an entity country if necessary or to arrange legally required contract amendments, to name just a few examples. As these matters may relate to individual team members or groups of team members, they are appropriately managed in a confidential manner.
If the Legal, Employment team makes a request for support or assistance from the People Operations team, the request should be formulated using a template (
linked here
, though accessible internally only to Legal, Employment and the People Operations team).
The request should include
all
the required detail and explanation to enable People Operations to support, including:
An explanation of what is needed
Whether there’s a timeline on the request (ensuring People Operations are provided with as much lead time as possible)
Whether all the information needed, has been provided, eg contact names, dual language translations if applicable, links to any relevant documents etc
A note on whether an FAQ to share with team members is needed or whether People Operatons have enough information to answer any questions which might arise
Whether there are any follow up actions for legal or for People Operations
A short explanation or summary (if necessary) or courtesy update for the managers of any affected team members
Whether confirmation of completion is needed
To make a request, a copy of the template should be saved, filled out as above, dated and passed to the People Operations Manager so the request can be assessed and assigned to a member of the People Operations team for completion. Once assigned, the member of the People Operations team who will be assisting with the request should touch base with the member of the Legal, Employment team who has made the request, to confirm that the request is being worked on and so it’s easy to collaborate on finishing out the task.
Support provided by the People Operations team to the People Business Partner team
Most tasks/requests from the People Business Partners for the People Operations team will be handled via a HelpLab. If a general query/question, the PBP may request guidance in the private
#pbp-peopleops
Slack channel. This is a private channel. The People Operations Team, will self-assign a task, within 24 hours and comment in Slack/HelpLab on the request to confirm.
People Operations Responsibilities & Response Timeline
Please note that the source of truth for role responsibilities is the job family for the
People Operations Team
. The table below is meant to provide a quick overview of some of the core responsibilities for the team.
People Operations Team
Responsibility
Response Timeline
Onboarding
2 weeks prior to start date
Offboarding
Immediate action for involuntary & 24 hours for voluntary
Organizational Changes
Within 3 days of effective date of change
Letters of Employment
Within 24 hours
Employment Verification
Within 24 hours
Anniversary Emails
First day of the following month
HelpLab Queries
Within 24 hours
Probation Period Notifications
Daily (when applicable)
Contract Renewals
30 days or more prior to team member’s renewal date
Exit Interviews
During voluntary offboarding team member’s last week
US Unemployment Claim Management
As Needed and Audited Quarterly
Relocations
As requested, usually completed 30 days or more prior to team member’s relocation date
Other listed processes for the People Operations Team can be found
here
Employment Solutions Team
Responsibility
Response Timeline
Country Conversions
As soon as approval is given by CFO. Conversion turnaround time can vary based on a variety of factors.
People Compliance Team
Responsibility
Response Timeline
Administration of the signing of our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
Annually in Feb/March
Frequently Requested
Please review the
frequently requested section
of the People Internal Handbook before reaching out to the team. The page includes information on accessing a team directory, requesting a letter of employment, mortgage forms, the companies reference request policy, ordering business cards, and changing your name in GitLab systems.
Addresses
For the mailing addresses, see our
visiting
page.
For the NL office, we use
addpost
to scan our mail and send it to a physical address upon request.
Reporting potential inaccurate LinkedIn Profiles
GitLab does not actively search for LinkedIn profiles that have inaccurate information about being a GitLab Team member. However, there are instances where a profile is identified and there is question on whether the person is truly a GitLab team member. Here is the process for flagging a potentially inaccurate profile and the actions that the People Operations Team will do to confirm and potentially report a profile.
Team members should first check in Slack and/or on the organizational page to determine if the team member is a current GitLab team member.
If the team member cannot confirm the profile, team members should reach out to the People Operations Team via
HelpLab
with the LinkedIn profile in question.
The People Operations team member will confirm in Workday that they are not/have not been a team member.
The People Operations team member will confirm with talent acquisition to confirm if they have ever been interviewed, made an offer or were declined.
The People Operations team member will reach out to the
Developer Relations team
to confirm if they are an active wider community member via the
#developer-relations
Slack channel, using the
@devrel-team
tag.
If they are a confirmed member of the wider community but not a team member, the Developer Relations team will reach out the profile and ask them to change their profile to match their GitLab involvement.
If they are not a current member of the wider community and talent acquisition has confirmed they do not have a profile in Greenhouse, talent acquisition will create a Do Not Hire profile.
The People Operations team member will report the account to LinkedIn via the
Reporting Inaccurate Information on Another Member’s Profile
Using Workday
We use Workday to maintain team member information.  All team members (all contract types) are in Workday.
Workday is managed and maintained by the People Tools and Technology team.
See our
Workday Guide
to  learn more about how to use Workday.
Using Culture Amp
Administrative access to CultureAmp will be limited based on role and responsibility. There are 3 different levels of access:
Account Administrator access can manage account setting and team member data, create surveys and has access to all survey results.
Survey Creator administrator access can create, manage and design surveys, select participants and share results.
Survey data analyst administrator can export raw data from all surveys enabled for raw data extract.
To request access please open an access request with the type of account
access requested
and the business need. The default admin access will be the Survey Creator administration rights unless other access is specified. Please note that Survey Data Analyst admin rights will not be granted to team members outside of the People group with out permission from the Chief People Officer.
If you need support with a specific CultureAmp Survey, please complete this
issue template
to alert the People Analytics Team.
Other pages related to the People Group
People Business Partners
People Business Partner Team
Total Rewards
Benefits
Global Compensation
People Operations
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
Promotions and Transfers
Employment Solutions (International Expansion)
Contracts
Probation Periods & PIAA
Onboarding
Offboarding
Celebrations
People Operations
People Analytics
Talent Acquisition
Incentives
Hiring process
Leadership
Learning and Development
Learning & Development
Guidance on Feedback
Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging
Gender and Sexual-orientation Identity Definitions and FAQ
Other People Group Links
People Policy Directory
Underperformance
Visas
Leadership handbook
Quarterly Talent Review (QTR)
Overview of GitLab's internal quarterly talent review process.
360 Feedback
360 Feedback is an opportunity where managers, direct reports, and cross functional team members will give feedback to each other.
Anti-Harassment Policy
Everyone at GitLab has a responsibility to prevent and stop harassment. Learn more about our Anti-harassment policy.
Competencies
GitLab has competencies as a common framework to learn things. This page is a Single Source of Truth (SSoT) resource for our competencies.
Contracts, Background Screenings, Probation Periods & PIAA
GitLab contract information and associated procedures.
Directly Responsible Individuals (DRI)
Directly Responsible Individuals (DRIs) at GitLab own particular projects, initiatives, or activity.
Employment Solutions - Overview
GitLab's Employment Solutions.
Engagement Surveys and Employer Awards
GitLab uses engagement surveys to allow team members to provide feedback and leadership to gain insight.
Gender and Sexual Orientation Identity Definitions and FAQ
Gender and sexual identity definitions, frequently asked questions, and resources
GitLab Internal Acceptable Use Policy
This policy specifies requirements related to the use of GitLab computing resources and data assets
GitLab Offboarding
Offboarding Procedures for GitLab Team Members and Stakeholders
GitLab Onboarding
Onboarding at GitLab and Onboarding Issue Templates
GitLab People Operations Team
Connect with Us GitLab Team Members can now reach out to us at the touch of a button via HelpLab. …
GiveLab Volunteer Initiatives
Discover GitLab's volunteering opportunities with GiveLab
Global People Compliance at GitLab
The Global People Compliance team at manages all compliance-related initiatives across People Operations processes.
Guidance on Feedback
GitLab's views and directions on how to give and receive feedback.
Incident Response
An outline of action to be taken in the instance that a team member or group of team members is impacted by an extreme weather event; natural disaster or any other catastrophe.
New Hires, Celebrations and Significant Life Events
Review different ways GitLab celebrates its team members.
Organizational Change Management
Overview GitLab is growing fast and we have been ranked as one of the fastest-growing private …
People Business Partner Team
Team Structure and Organizational Health People Business Partner Alignments This page has been moved …
People Group Program Management
This page provides an overview of Program Management within the People Group today.
People Operations Team
GitLab People Operations Department Handbook
Promotion Document Style Guide
Assembling a case for promotion can be a time-consuming process. The tips and style principles in …
Promotions and Transfers
Information and protocols related to GitLab promotions and transfers.
Pronoun Guidance and Information
Resources for understanding and discussing pronouns and their usage at GitLab.
Relocation
GitLab's Policies & Processes in Relation to Team Member Relocations.
Talent Assessment
Our talent assessment process is how we recognize and grow the people who make GitLab successful. By evaluating performance, identifying growth potential, and spotlighting key talent, we create clarity on where you stand, where you're headed, and how we'll support you getting there.
Talent brand
Our ambitions as an employer, the steps we take to achieve and communicate those ambitions, and the measures in place to ensure we live up to them.
Talent Development
Overview Purpose Why we exist: GitLab Talent Development (commonly referred to as “Learning …
Talent Development Program
Information on GitLab's Talent Development Program to ensure ongoing success across all teams.
Team Member Relations at GitLab
The Team Member Relations team at GitLab ensures that team members feel safe and have a point of contact for all confidential discussions.
Time Off and Absence at GitLab
Understanding Time Away at GitLab Use the Time Away Philosophy section below to understand …
Visas
Information on travel visas, visa letters, and immigration to the Netherlands.
Last modified April 30, 2026:
Remove team shortcode and replace urls (
02172f8f
)
View page source
-
Edit this page
-
please
contribute
.