SOURCE: https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/marketing/developer-relations/
============================================================

Developer Relations
The Developer Relations team supports GitLab’s mission by working with our community to ensure they receive support and recognition for contributing to GitLab.
Welcome to the GitLab Developer Relations Handbook
What is DevRel?
Developer Relations (short: DevRel) operates at the intersection of technology, community, and advocacy, serving as the voice and ears of GitLab in the wider tech world. Their core mission revolves around nurturing and sustaining a vibrant, engaged community of developers, contributors, and users. This involves a multifaceted approach that includes creating educational content, organizing events and workshops, developing programs, and providing platforms for knowledge exchange and collaboration. The team not only focuses on promoting GitLab’s features and capabilities but also actively listens to and incorporates feedback from the community to inform product development and improvements.
Our mission & vision
Developer Relations drives platform awareness and adoption by enabling GitLab customers, connecting through community, and engaging developers where they are. GitLab engages with more than 3000 developers every month on GitLab.com alone, and receives more than 250 contributions every month, giving us a unique level of influence in the DevSecOps space and helping accelerate our innovation. Our ultimate goal is to raise awareness of GitLab and drive customer success by winning the hearts & minds of developers through best-in-class technical enablement and an active community of contributors.
In Developer Relations, we align our mission and vision with the company’s three year strategy. We believe that
everyone can contribute
. To help GitLab reach this goal, we aim to double outreach and engagement, strengthen our community presence, and support a healthy community of contributors. Ultimately, these goals boost awareness, adoption, and power our dual flywheels.
Our Strategy
Our operational strategy is
documented in our internal handbook
but is classified as confidential due to business sensitivity, customer impact, and to foster a psychological safe environment for our team members. Below you can find our strategic plans that are open to the wider community and where the Developer Relations team welcomes collaboration.
Contributor Program Unification & Growth Plan
Co-Creation Initiative
Meet the Team
Name
Role
Arianna Haradon
Senior Fullstack Engineer
Cesar Saavedra
Senior Developer Advocate
Colleen Lavin
Developer Advocate
Daniel Helfand
Developer Advocate
Fatima Sarah Khalid
Senior Developer Advocate
Fernando Diaz
Senior Developer Advocate
Itzik Gan-Baruch
Sr. Developer Advocate
,
Product Management internship
John Coghlan
Director, Developer Advocacy
Lee Tickett
Principal Fullstack Engineer, DevRel Engineering
Core Team member
Mattias Michaux
Fullstack Engineer, DevRel Engineering
Michael Friedrich
Principal Developer Advocate
Missy Davies
Fullstack Engineer, DevRel Engineering
Nick Veenhof
Director, DevRel Engineering & Programs
Raimund Hook
Staff Fullstack Engineer, DevRel Engineering
Sina Abadi
Fullstack Engineer, DevRel Engineering
William Arias
Senior Developer Advocate
How to reach us
Chat with us
Developer Relations team members use two Slack channels:
#developer-relations
: for all GitLab-related discussion (ex: questions about an issue, announcement of an upcoming event)
developer-relations-confidential
: (private) for discussion of confidential topics that cannot be shared in a channel with people from outside GitLab (ex: discussing a topic that was shared in #company-fyi-private among our team)
GitLab team members and others with Slack access can reach us by visiting the
#developer-relations
Slack channel, or by tagging the
@devrel-team
group handle.
Members of the wider GitLab community can connect with us in the
public Discord rooms
Teams within Developer Relations are reachable in these Slack channels:
#dev-advocacy-team
: the
Developer Advocate
team shares content updates, thought leadership & product ideas, and support community responses, CFPs, etc.
#developer-relations-programs
: for all inquiries regarding
Developer Relations Programs
#developer-relations-engineering
: for all inquiries regarding
Developer Relations Engineering
#developer-relations-community-contributions
: for community contribution discussions
#developer-relations-eng-and-programs
: for cross-team discussions between Developer Relations Engineering and Programs
Email us
Please use the
e-mail address specific to each program
Open an issue
We use GitLab to plan, collaborate and execute. More information about where and how you can open an issue can be found in our operational workflow pages.
Developer Advocacy
Developer Relations Programs
Emergency contact
Developer Relations emergency contacts
Incident management roles
Relevant Slack channels for incident/infrastructure:
#incidents
,
#infrastructure_platforms
How we work
Developer Relations Team resources
Programs resources
Meetup checklist
Our handbooks
Developer Relations Engineering
Contributors Program
Developer Advocacy
Developer Relations Programs
Open Source
Education
Co-Create
Our workflows
Community engagement:
Code of Conduct Enforcement
Community Response Process
Events
Community platforms:
Discourse Forum
Discord
Reddit
StackOverflow
Common Room
Content:
Content Effectiveness Strategy
Content Review / Fix Fridays
UTM Tracking Strategy
Organization:
Team Budgets
Swag operations
License Grants
Workato automation
Email
Twitter/X
Cloud Resources
Community Interest
If you are working on changes to the company, product, or pricing that are expected to have a meaningful impact on members of the wider GitLab community or the GitLab brand, we encourage you to use the label
~Community Interest
so that the Developer Relations team can represent the interests of the wider GitLab community in the planning process.
All members of the Developer Relations team should be subscribed to this label in both the
gitlab-com
and
gitlab-org
projects.
Team touchpoints
Our team has a few weekly events that we use to stay connected and aligned on our work:
Team meeting (bi-weekly)
Team meetings are recorded via Zoom and recordings linked to the corresponding date in the meeting notes.
1:1 meeting between each team member and their manager.
Question check-in via Geekbot in Slack for each team member. The responses are shared in the
#developer-advocacy-hangout
Slack channel.
Monday (weekend social, plans for the week)
Thursday (reminder to share achievements, thoughts, blockers, etc.)
End of week updates: Results and wins, search for
Developer Relations - End of Week updates
in Google drive.
Our calendars
We use team-wide calendars for collective notification and to manage team logistics and events. Additionally, specific teams within Developer Relations may maintain calendars specific to their programs (such as the Developer Advocacy team calendar).
Developer Relations Team
Community Events
Developer Advocacy Team
Developer Relations KPIs
The Developer Relations team monitors several
Key Performance Indicators and related Performance Indicators
.
Unique Wider Community Contributors per Month
      (target: Above 200 contributors per month)
🔗
Wider Community merged MRs per release
🔗
Developer Relations Monthly Outreach
Active Community Members
GitLab for Education Quarterly Active Seats
MRARR
      (target: Identified in Tableau Chart)
🔗
Team Logos
GitLab Developer Relations team logos can be found in
.png
and
.svg
formats by searching for
gitlab-devrel-logo
in Google Drive.
Team Budgets
Learn more on the
Developer Relations budget page
Community Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging
In alignment with
GitLab’s core value of Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging (DIB)
, the Developer Relations team seeks to purposefully design DIB into every facet of its programs and operations. We seek to foster DIB at GitLab and within the wider GitLab community.
DEI Strategies
As DEI (Diversity, Equity and Inclusion) allies in the open source community, GitLab’s Developer Relations team is committed to the following DEI efforts within our contributor communities:
DEI project badging:
Partner with community-wide initiatives to establish a mechanism to recognize, support and promote DEI efforts through a badging system.
Highlight the DEI values and inclusion efforts of GitLab’s projects.
Encourage open-source projects hosted on GitLab to do the same.
First-time contributor inclusion:
Perform user research studies on first-time contributors to learn and improve the experience.
Improve documentation from perspectives of first-time contributors.
Improve community onboarding for newcomers.
DEI group participation:
Track DEI group participation among GitLab team members, beginning with the Developer Relations team.
Encourage team members to attend open-source DEI working groups and events.
Poll team members quarterly to track participation.
Expand from Developer Relations to Marketing and then across GitLab.
Swag/contributor points coupons at qualifying events:
Offer GitLab swag and GitLab contributor points coupons at qualifying events.
Incentivize community members and potential contributors with coupon codes.
GitLab contributor resource groups:
Form GitLab contributor resource groups similar to GitLab
Team Member Resource Groups
(TMRGs).
Include mentoring/coaching opportunities.
Consider groups for non-contributing developers or for Developer Relations team members.
Consider hosting events/days for specified underrepresented groups.
Planning Events and Activities
This section is meant to document tips and best practices that the Developer Relations team, and GitLab team, should keep in mind as they plan
events
and activities.
Images:
We seek to promote the use of images that represent a diverse group of users, customers, and community members. When we see a lack of diverse representation, we speak up and actively help update those images when possible.
Speakers:
As event organizers and participants, we seek to include a diverse set of speakers in events that GitLab organizes or touches.
We are open-minded:
We actively seek feedback and keep an open mind about our current policies. We are open to change and are willing to make structural changes to ensure that we continue to foster DIB among our team and the wider GitLab community.
We retain a growth mindset and keep learning:
We read articles, attend workshops, and participate in trainings that help educate us about how to foster DIB in our community and how to be inclusive ourselves.
We encourage a diverse set of community members to participate in research:
We recognize the product inclusivity is important and that we need to build with our community, not just for them.
We promote the
GitLab Diversity Scholarship program
:
This scholarship supports Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging-focused events financially.
Communities who inspire us
We take inspiration from the great work being done by other communities. Some of the communities who we take inspiration from:
Linux Foundation
- A large, engaged community that act as custodians for important open source technology.
CNCF
- A large, engaged community that act as custodians for important open source technology.
FINOS
- A large, engaged community that act as custodians for important open source technology.
Debian
- A large, engaged community that act as custodians for important open source technology.
GNOME
- A large, engaged community that act as custodians for important open source technology.
KDE
- A large, engaged community that act as custodians for important open source technology.
Fedora
- A large, engaged community that act as custodians for important open source technology.
Drupal
- A large, engaged community that act as custodians for important open source technology.
Wikimedia Foundation
- This community is a champion for free information with a large, engaged community.
Kubernetes
- This community consists of a large network of user groups and champions that serve to help each other grow and better utilize Kubernetes.
AWS
- This community consists of a large network of user groups and champions that serve to help each other grow and better utilize AWS.
Dev.to
- This community creates a welcoming place for the tech community, particularly newcomers, to learn and share content.
Hacker News
- This community is known for its engaging discussion of the latest tech news and trends.
Google Summer of Code
- This community inspires us through their work to make the tech community more diverse and inclusive and create new opportunities for people new to tech.
Outreachy
- This community inspires us through their work to make the tech community more diverse and inclusive and create new opportunities for people new to tech.
Grace Hopper Community / Systers
- This community inspires us through their work to make the tech community more diverse and inclusive.
Lesbians Who Tech
- This community inspires us through their work to make the tech community more diverse and inclusive.
Techqueria
- This community inspires us through their work to make the tech community more diverse and inclusive.
Latinas in Tech
- This community inspires us through their work to make the tech community more diverse and inclusive.
Women in Tech
- This community inspires us through their work to make the tech community more diverse and inclusive.
Women Who Code
- This community inspires us through their work to make the tech community more diverse and inclusive.
Rails Girls
- This community inspires us through their work to make the tech community more diverse and inclusive.
Community Learning Pathway
The
Community Learning Pathway
is a course built to educate the community on how the Developer Relations team works, the different community programs and how to contribute the GitLab. Members of the Community and GitLab team members who complete the course will earn a badge.
Community Building Reading Group
The Community Building Reading Group is for GitLab team members interested or engaged in building communities at GitLab. Hosted by members of the Developer Relations team, this learning-focused group examines various principles and practices related to imagining, designing, building, nurturing, growing, and supporting communities. Potential topics of study and discussion include:
Leading and conducting community activities
Welcoming new contributors
Managing relationships in and with communities
Negotiating community authority and power relations
Architecting and enforcing community codes of conduct
Cultivating community cultures
Measuring community health and success
Converting community participants into community contributors
Encouraging community mentorship
Building community-powered innovation and business models
Assessing community infrastructure and governance models
Understanding community value propositions and exchanges
By collaborating as part of this group, members aim to:
Hone their craft.
Working with communities requires thoughtful and skillful practice. This group provides a space for collectively reviewing, assessing, and learning from materials that help members become better practitioners.
Create space for support and growth.
Working with communities requires emotional labor, and people who undertake it often benefit from spaces to discuss the work’s challenges with like-minded collaborators. This group would function as one such space.
Generate and share resources.
Working with communities is easier with knowledge of best practices and trusted frameworks. By reading and reviewing materials on the state of the art, members generate a knowledge commons others can access and from which they can learn.
Any GitLab team member interested in community-building practices is welcome to participate in and contribute to the group. Unlike typical
GitLab book clubs
, this reading group:
is an ongoing effort rather than a discrete and time-delimited event
is focused on a series of works rather than a single one
The reading group operates on a cadence group members determine together. Group members also collectively determine the material—for example, a book chapter, a white paper, a research report, a presentation recording, or a case study—they’ll cover each week.
Group members propose materials for the group to study and discuss by opening an issue in the Developer Relations team’s
Community Building
project
using the
reading-group
template, then attaching the
Reading Group::Proposed
label to it.
Group members can then browse one another’s suggestions and collectively select what to study.
When they determine what they’ll read, they re-label the issue
Reading Group::Up Next.
When they begin reading and studying proposed material, they re-label the issue, applying the
Reading Group::Now Reading
label.
And when they’ve finished a selection, they apply the
Reading Group::Finished
label to the associated issue. A
project board
tracks all selections.
As they read, group members share notes and impressions asynchronously
via files
stored in the
Community Building
project. When they have completed a selection, they polish these notes and update the
Community Building
wiki accordingly.
In each cycle, a group member (typically the person who proposed the materials) acts as “leader.” Group leaders pose some basic discussion questions or thought-generating insights to guide the group’s reading and frame its discussion. Group members meet at regular intervals for live, synchronous discussion of the reading materials (suggested time for discussion meetings: 45 minutes). Recordings of these meetings are available, but because discussions often contain personal details and sensitive issues, these recordings are only access to GitLab team members via an internal Google Drive.
Community Learning Pathway: Course Resources
Community Learning Pathway The Community Learning pathway is a course on the GitLab Learn platform, …
Developer Advocacy
Developer Advocates build GitLab's technical brand with deep, meaningful conversations on engineering topics relevant to our community.
Developer Relations - Content Effectiveness
How the Developer Relations team measures effectiveness of content it creates.
Developer Relations Content Requests
How to request content from the Developer Relations team
Developer Relations Department Performance Indicators
Performance Indicators for the Developer Relations Department at GitLab
Developer Relations Engineering Team
Developer Relations Engineering Team
Developer Relations Events
Events are a great way for GitLab and the Developer Relations team to connect with customers and the …
Developer Relations Programs
The Developer Relations Programs team is part of Developer Relations at GitLab
Developer Relations workflow: UTM Tracking Strategy
Overview The purpose of this page is to outline the UTM strategy of the Community team and how it …
Developer Relations Workflows and Tools
Workflows Team objectives For more information on how objectives are set and managed in GitLab today …
GitLab Meetup Checklist
This guide is intended to help Meetup organizers run events that their community will love. Our aim …
Technical Marketing
Learn more about the purpose, process and output of GitLab's Technical Marketing.
Last modified June 4, 2026:
Update handbook to reflect recent changes (
95b48a25
)
View page source
-
Edit this page
-
please
contribute
.