SOURCE: https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/people-group/relocation/
============================================================

Relocation
GitLab’s Policies & Processes in Relation to Team Member Relocations.
Relocation / Address Change
This process is managed by the People Operations team as the DRI.  For any questions not addressed below, please submit a request via
HelpLab
.
Moving to a new location is an exciting adventure, and at GitLab, we want to encourage team members to utilize the flexibility that our relocation policy offers. However, there are multiple aspects to consider including eligibility, possible impact on compensation (including equity and benefit eligibility) and the impact on your role at GitLab.
It’s important to note that for both candidates about to join GitLab or existing team members all relocation requests will require business approval, which will consider the ability of the team member to drive results in the new location and the impact of a relocation on the departmental budget. Consult your
FP&A Partner
as soon as possible to ensure the compensation change is accounted for in the department budget.
A relocation that results in no change in compensation can be approved by the team member’s direct manager.  Relocations resulting in an increase in compensation must be approved by the team member’s direct manager, and location factor changes that are >.2 will require direct manager, VP as well as an e-group Member approval.
Importance of Communicating Location
All Team Members are required to request an approval to relocate prior to moving. Moving to a new location is an exciting adventure, and at GitLab, we want to encourage team members to utilize the flexibility that our relocation policy offers. However, there are multiple aspects to consider including eligibility, possible impact on compensation (including equity and benefit eligibility) and the impact on your role at GitLab. The consequences of not communicating to the appropriate group could result in disciplinary action up to and including termination, depending on the circumstances. Having team members working outside of their contractual location poses potential tax liability for both GitLab and the team member. For this reason, it is important to communicate transparently and promptly with your manager and with the People Team.
Team members must reside in their primary location for at least 183 days (consecutive or not) within a calendar year
. Team members may live or work outside their permanent location, as specified in Workday, for a maximum total of 183 days (approximately 6 months) per calendar year. GitLab is responsible for reporting and remitting taxes based on the location where a team member performs their work (i.e., earned income) and ensuring employment compliance based on each team member’s work location. This means that at least half of the time worked must be from the primary location.  Please be aware that spending extended time in another country or state may have tax implications. Team members are encouraged to consult their personal tax advisor to understand the tax rules applicable in each location. If you believe you may exceed (or has already exceeded) the 183 days limit (or a lower threshold in certain countries), contact the People Operations Team
immediately
.  Managers are responsible for ensuring that team members are abiding by the requirement to be in their primary location for the required amount of time and reporting when someone has or is about to exceed the limit.
Additionally, certain roles require team members to be present in the location for which they were hired to support business activities.  Sales, for example, may require travel to customer sites and for the team member to be available for customers within a specific time zone.  All Team members are required to obtain manager approval to work outside of their primary location regardless of the length of time at that location. Managers can deny a request or ask for a team member to change their request due to the impact on business results. A team member who fails to communicate and/or seek approval to work outside of their primary location could also result in underperformance management action or loss of employment, depending on the circumstances. Long-term relocations (greater than 183 days/6 months stay) must follow the application and approval process
outlined below
.
Digital Nomads
Team Members who want to leverage the flexibility of technology to work remotely while traveling to different locations may do so while adhering to the guidelines of the
long term relocation
process. Digital Nomad team members are permitted to reside and work from any country
with considerations
for a maximum of 183 days (approximately 6 months) without having to complete a long term relocation request. Remember that team members must still reside in their primary location for at least 183 days per year.  Balancing flexibility with legal, tax, and compliance requirements is key in maintaining a proper employment solution at GitLab.
Digital nomads’ presence in a location for an extended period could risk classification of a “permanent establishment” for GitLab in that country. GitLab may be required to comply with tax liabilities or to formally register to operate business in that location.
Team members are responsible for understanding the tax and legal requirements to work while on a digital nomad visa including costs associated with obtaining a visa. Digital nomad visas are typically granted with the understanding that you will work only for foreign employers.  If we have an established entity, travel to such locations under the nomad visa may be prohibited. Some countries may also require digital nomads to report their earnings or register their presence.
Working in a new location for more than 183 days will qualify as a long term relocation and your compensation and employment agreement will be updated to reflect the new location which can impact your ability to maintain the digital nomad visa work authorization.  Any time spent in temporary locations for 183 days or less (short term relocation) will not result in any change to compensation or employment agreements based on the new location.
Short-Term Stay Definition
If you are not changing your permanent location (where you maintain permanent residency), but instead are traveling to different locations over a period of time, you are responsible for maintaining your health insurance, visas, and any other item directly relating to your travel. Consider discussing your travel plans with your medical providers so that you can be aware of the resouces available to you, should you need them.
Since any short-term stay is your decision and not required by GitLab as part of your role, you will not be eligible to use the
Business Accident Travel Policy
or submit any expenses related to your travel. If you are hired in a role requiring a time zone alignment, you must still be able to fulfill that requirement.
If your short-term stay is for less than 6 months in a new location, there should be no need to update your address in Workday.
If you plan on staying in a location for more than 6 months in a single calendar year, or are in that location for an aggregate of more than 6 months in a single calendar year, that becomes your residence and you must complete the long-term relocation process described below. In most countries, tax residency is determined by the place where a GitLab Team Member keeps its vital interests over the span of a calendar year. This is the place where you are registered, where your significant other (SO) and/or dependents live, the place where you work, where you live, where you keep your subscriptions etc.
** Please note that in some jurisdictions, even short term stays can add up to more than 183 days per year and can subject you to payroll tax in the new location.  Always make sure to check with your tax advisor before traveling to any location where you will be performing work for an extended period of time, whether it is more than or less than 183 days.
Considerations for Short-Term Travel
GitLab is an all-remote company that allows it’s team members to work from most places globally, however, some places are subject to trade control restrictions. For this reason, team members cannot take company-owned devices to or otherwise work from US-embargoed countries or regions under any circumstances. The U.S. embargoed country list includes but not limited to Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Syria, Russia, Belarus, and the Crimea, Donetsk, and Luhansk regions of Ukraine.
GitLab provides this information, which is subject to change without notice, to facilitate GitLab users’ compliance with applicable trade control law. Additional information can be found on the
Trade Compliance
page in the handbook.
Some countries may not be on the US-embargoed list but still require prior GitLab notice and/or approval before traveling to or working from these locations. If you have any questions do not hesitate to contact the People Team via
HelpLab
.
Long-Term Relocation
Long-Term Relocation Definition
A long-term relocation means that you will establish yourself in a new location. If you are spending more than six months in one calendar year in one location as part of an extensive period of travel and/or will have your mail delivered to an address in a different address, please follow the steps below to request a long-term relocation.
It is at the company’s discretion to determine whether it can approve the relocation:
Some job positions require GitLab team members to be located in particular countries, locations, regions, or time zones.  For example, a salesperson hired to serve a specific region may need to stay in that region, or an engineer hired to respond to customer requests in a specific region/country.
GitLab only allows relocations to countries in which we already have a formed entity that carries no hiring restrictions. Review our
Country hiring guidelines
to see if the country is eligible for a relocation.
GitLab cannot accept relocation requests to a location where there might be the possibility of the formation of a new entity until it is formally established, open for hiring, and the business objectives are fully understood.
GitLab cannot accept relocation requests to a US-embargoed location, including but not limited to Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Syria, Russia, Belarus, and the Crimea, Donetsk, and Luhansk regions of Ukraine.
In addition to the U.S. embargoed countries identified above, GitLab cannot accept requests from GitLab Federal team members to the following countries without approval from GitLab’s Trade Compliance Counsel: Afghanistan, Belarus, Burma (Myanmar), Central African Republic, China (PRC), Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), Eritrea, Ethiopia, Haiti, Iraq, Lebanon, Libya, Nicaragu,Somalia, South Sudan, Sudan, Venezuela, Yemen, and Zimbabwe.
You can only work in countries where you can establish eligibility to work in the country without visa sponsorship provided by GitLab.
Relocations can also result in an adjustment to compensation, including equity eligibility, based on the location and the location factor. Depending on the location factor and the benefits offered in the particular country, the adjustment will result in an increase or a decrease to the compensation package. The Company retains discretion to determine whether it can support the relocation due to the required adjustment.
At the onset, this practice may seem harsh when moving to a lower-paid location. One might argue that people should be paid the same regardless of where they live.  However, if you look at it from another angle and compare this practice to what most companies do, it should make more sense. For example, if you work for a company with physical locations and they require you to work out of an office or close to an office, you’d have to live in that area.  If you wanted to move to a location where they did not have a physical site, you would have no alternative but to resign and seek new employment in your new location. You would find that companies in the area pay at a locally competitive rate.
Now, let’s say the company did have a site in your new location and they offered the flexibility to transfer. If they did not have a similar position open, you would have to either apply for a different open position in the same company or resign and apply externally (back to the realization that other companies will pay at a locally competitive rate). If you were lucky enough that they did have a similar role in the new location, a transfer would come with a pay rate based on the local market to ensure equity across all incumbents (people in the job) by location.
Adjusting
pay according to the local market in all cases
is fair to everyone. We can’t remain consistent if we make exceptions to the policy and allow someone to earn more than locally competitive rates for the same work others in that region are performing (or will be hired to do). Being fair to all team members is not negotiable. It is a value we stand behind and take very seriously.
Considerations and Eligibility
GitLab retains discretion at all times whether it can accommodate you to continue your role in the new location based on the requirements of your role and the potential impact on the business.  In some instances a move will not align to your proposed location, (e.g. a recruiter hired in EMEA to support EMEA would not be approved to move to the US), and in other instances the company may not be able to support a relocation in the proposed location. Second, in almost all situations the compensation, including equity eligibility, can change. During the relocation process, you will learn how your compensation may be impacted and be able to make an informed decision.  Any increases in compensation will need to go through an
approval process
.  This allows the business to validate budget availability early in the process. If you like to understand how a relocation would impact you please submit a
Relocation Evaluation
request via HelpLab to the People Operations team.
If you are considering applying for a long-term relocation to a new country, the first consideration is to ensure that GitLab has an
entity
in the country to which you would like to move.  We currently only support relocations to GitLab Entities that are open for hiring and do not have hiring restrictions or headcount caps.  This is in alignment with our
Country hiring guidelines
.
Consider any changes to
benefits
as benefits can vary by country.
You must have the appropriate right to work documentation/visa requirements in the country that you are considering relocating to.
Please note, at this moment GitLab only sponsors
relocations to the Netherlands
and doesn’t cover relocation costs for the team member’s family members also looking to relocate.
You must have satisfied the required one year tenure to be eligible for relocation.
Eligibility to Work
If you are interested in a long-term relocation (defined above), you need to confirm that you would be eligible to work in that location.
Except for the Netherlands
, GitLab does not provide any form of sponsorship or immigration aid for team members who choose to move to new countries. For more information, please refer to our
Visa page
. GitLab cannot assist or facilitate a process to help you become eligible to work in a location if you do not already have that eligibility. You are of course free to apply and gain that eligibility if there are steps you can take that do not involve GitLab.  Once you are certain that you are eligible to work in your requested location country, you will need to provide proof of eligibility by
uploading the proof in the Documents tab of your Workday profile
. If you move before establishing eligibility to work, but then cannot establish eligibility to work in the new location within the first six months of residency, it may affect your ability to continue your role with GitLab.
How To Apply for a Long-Term Relocation
Team Member
Review the
Country hiring guidelines
to see if we can support your relocation.
If you are moving to a different country, please start this process no later than
3 months
prior to your ideal relocation date.  If your relocation is within the same country, please start the process no later than 30 days before your ideal relocation date.
If you are moving to a different country, upload eligibility documentation to Workday -  Per the
Eligibility to Work
section above.
Complete the
Relocation Request Form
via
HelpLab
to submit the initial request to start the process.  Upon completion, the form is sent automatically to People Operations who will review the details of your move and will work with the proper leaders and approvers to determine if the relocation can be approved (based on any budgetary and job duty impacts).  Your manager will review if your role can be performed adequately in the new location without negatively impacting stakeholders or customers.  Some positions require GitLab team members to be located in particular countries, locations, regions, or time zones and will not be eligible for relocation.  People Operations will work with your manager on the final decision.  Your manager will communicate the decision and the impact on your compensation so that you can make an informed final decision as to your move. Your assigned People Business Partner will also be informed of your request to relocate.
Start preparing and avoid a delay in your pay or change to your relocation effective date by ensuring you have all required work documentation prior to your relocation. The onus is on the team member to research these requirements in advance as GitLab doesn’t provide immigration support, except for the
Netherlands
. Please take into account processing times for visa and other required appointments in the relocating country needed in order to receive a tax number, bank account, etc.
Note: Assuming your relocation is approved, any applicable changes in compensation will not be effective until your move date (or the date you start working in the new location), which will be listed as the effective date on your new contract.
We will not be able to process retroactive dated relocations. Please only use future dates when applying for your relocation.
Approvals Phase
Below are the steps to approve a long term relocation.
Relocation Within Same Country and Same Location Factor
No approval is needed.  Team Members can
update their address
in the Contact tab in their Workday profile. A People Operations Team member will
approve the address in Workday
and reach out if there are any additional steps necessary to complete the relocation process.
If the country and the location factor don’t change, no change in compensation is allowed as part of the relocation action.
Relocations To New Country or Different Location Factor
Complete the
Relocation Request Form
to submit the initial request to start the process. Upon completion, the form is sent automatically to People Operations.
Once the relocation request form has been received by People Operations, they should review the form playing close attention to the following information:
Work Eligibility
The relocation date is future dated and allows enough time for the process to be finalized.
Relocations from one country to a new country: once you have determined an appropriate month for your relocation we will request that the relocation effective date reflects either the 1st or 16th of the month to help avoid any complications with local taxes or absence accrual policies.
For sales personnel with a variable change, the effective date should always be the 1st of the month.
Reason for relocation is provided
Team member has confirmed whether or not they require employer sponsored visa for relocation
The team member has satisfied the required one year tenure to be eligible for relocation
The People Operations Team will determine the impact on compensation based on the relocation utilizing the following practices:
If the relocation request within the same country does not result in a change in compensation, no further approvals are required and The People Operations team will
inform the manager of the relocation
If the country and/or the location factor changes, the compensation will be adjusted based on the location factor change.  For example, if a team member currently resides in a location with a location factor of .70 and the move results in the team member landing in a location with a location factor of .75, the compensation recommendation will be to increase the salary to position the team member’s salary to an equal position in the new range (compa-ratio).  If the team member currently resides in a location with a location factor of .80 and the move results in landing in a location with a location factor of .70, the compensation recommendation will be to decrease the salary to position the team member’s salary in an equal position in the new range. If the compensation range of the team member’s role isn’t available, the People Operations Team member reaches out to Total Rewards to discuss the new compensation.
If the relocation meets all requirements for a compensation change, the People Operations Team will
determine relocation salary
using the same compa ratio as the previous location (if applicable).
The People Operations team will then
obtain approvals
for the relocation request and add the applicable
PBP of the division
in copy. Considerations in addition to budget availability include business criticality of the role, ability to perform the role from the proposed new location, and demonstrated performance by the team member. Any increase in location factor equal to or greater than .20 will require
VP approval
and following that
E-Group member approval
BEFORE
manager approval
due to the possible significant impact on compensation with a copy to the Division Director and VP to add context and transparency for E-Group member consideration.
The People Operations Team member will update the
Relocation Tracker
with the details of the relocation
Once Approved
The People Operations Team member will inform the Manager once the relocation has been fully approved.
The manager will convey to the team member that their relocation has been approved and relay their new compensation.  The manager will then determine if the team member still wishes to relocate based on the changes to compensation.  The manager will convey the team member’s final decision to the People Operations team.
The People Operations Team member will ensure that all approval documents including original request from the team member and any approval email threads are saved in the team member’s
Workday
Contracts & Changes
folder
. This approval will include the converted salary where applicable for the authorized signatory on the contract / job change letter to audit against before signing.
Contract Phase
The contract phase is unique based upon the team member’s relocation. The different options are as follows:
Relocation within the Same Country
Relocating to a new country
Relocation within the Same Country
Tasks for People Operations
If relocating between Quebec and Non-Quebec review applicable tasks
here
A Relocation letter is only needed if there is a compensation change:
Make a copy of the
Relocation letter
and save it to the
working documents folder
.
Enter all applicable information based on the relocation request approval email and the team member’s Workday profile
Once the Relocation letter has been created, ping the People Operations Team for auditing.
Stage the letter in DocuSign and send for signature to the
applicable signatory
and the team member
Upload the signed document to the team member’s
Contracts & Changes
folder in Workday.
Update the
Relocation Tracker
with the details of this relocation.
The People Operations Team member makes any necessary updates to the team member’s Workday profile by following these Job Aids:
How to: Change Job
and
For relocations to another state within the US: Set a reminder to
update the benefit group
on the effective date of the relocation
Once the People Operations Team member has updated Workday, they will then reach out to another People Operations team member to audit the updated entry
Once the team member updates their address in Workday, the People Operations Team member
approves the address change
Tasks for the Team Member
Update your address
in the Contact tab in your Workday profile. Your
address will then get approved
by the People Operations Team member team.
Relocation to a New Country
Tasks for People Operations
Upload the approval communication from HelpLab to the team members Workday > Documents folder (approvals & confidential)
Create a new
contract
for the team member confirming new compensation (if applicable) and effective date.
Ensure to remove the cover letter from the contract template (if applicable) for relocations, as the cover letter is not needed.
If a team member is relocating to France, you should follow
similar steps to CES
, when creating a French offer, by requesting support from the Legal,Employment Team via email
legal-employment@gitlab.com
to determine which contract template should be used and to have the relocating team member classified under the applicable CBA in France. One of the Legal, Employment Team members will respond with the following information:
The Template that you should use (A,B or C); and
The classification wording that should be added to the template (including information on where the wording should be placed on both the English & French sides)
No stock options are given through relocation, so that line can be removed
Probation Period
: If a team member has continued service with GitLab (tenure with GitLab has been uninterrupted) and they have already passed the probationary period of their original location or contract, they do not need to go through the probation period of their new location or contract.
A list of all signatories can be found
here
.
If applicable:
A
Mutual Termination Agreement
is needed, if the team member is relocating from IT BV.
A
Side letter Relocation - Transfer from one entity to another
is needed if the team member is relocating from one entity to another.
Ping a People Operations Team member for auditing in the private slack channel. The person auditing should make a private comment in the HelpLab case confirming the audit.
Stage the contract in DocuSign and send for signature first to the GitLab signatory and subsequently to the team member.
In the event that the team member requests any changes to the contract, once approved and updated, send an email to the team member with the breakdown of the applicable changes once the contract has been sent for signature via DocuSign.
Upload the signed document to the team member’s
Contracts & Changes
folder in Workday.
The People Operations Team member makes any necessary updates to the team member’s Workday profile following the
Change Job Aid
. Additional steps:
Update the locality at point of relocation (don’t wait for the address change)
Check if a future dated One-Time-Payment needs to get updated due to the currency change
Once the People Operations Team member has updated Workday, they will then reach out to another People Operations team member to have them audit the updated entry.
The People Operations Team member will update the
Relocation Tracker
, that the relocation has been completed.
Create a
relocation issue
for the team member using the applicable country template in the
team member epics
and assign to yourself and the relocating team member. Ensure all tasks are completed and follow up with the relocating team member if required.
Copy/paste any country specific
on-/offboarding tasks
to this issue
Complete any
Pre-Onboarding taks
for the applicable country
Complete any
Country Specific Tasks
If there is a sales commission change: Add the details to the
Final Sales OTE
sheet
Tasks for Team Members - Relocation Approved
Once your relocation has been approved and the contract has been signed, a
relocation issue
will get opened and assigned to you by the People Operations Team. Please ensure you complete any tasks by the due date to ensure a smooth onboarding and to have everything ready for your first payroll in the new country.
If you are relocating away from a location with PEO Employment, you must give notice to the PEO directly within the notice period. Most
notice periods
are usually 30 days, but you must review your own contract, as it will be specified there.
Country Specific Tasks
The United States of America
Relocating
To
The United States
Run the
Add Employee integration
from Workday to LawLogix in order to intiate the I-9 process for the team member moving at least 5 days before the relocation.
Place team member in the appropriate benefit group
in Workday on the effective date
While creating the contract, please remove the summary page as it is not needed for relocating team members.
Relocating
From
The United States
If a team member is leaving the US, you will need to manually terminate the team member in LawLogix. This will allow the I-9 to be purged at the correct time.
Log in to LawLogix > search employee > Job Details tab > click: terminate
Set yourself a reminder to
update the Benefit Group
in Workday to
INELIGIBLE
within one week of the relocation effective date. This confirms the end of the team member’s US benefits eligiblity and the Total Rewards Team terminates the team member in PlanSource.
The Netherlands
Relocating
To
The Netherlands
The steps our People Operations Team member team uses to support relocations to the Netherlands in addition to above
relocation process
:
The People Operations Team member stages the relocation contract via Docusign for the team member and GitLab signatory to sign and adds
hr@savvy-group.eu
to ‘Receive a copy’ once signed.
The People Operations Team member will then reach out to our Payroll vendor in the Netherlands by emailing
hr@savvy-group.eu
and introduce the relocating team member in cc to support them with their relocation.
The vendor will supply all the documentation needed to apply for relocation including information about:
30% Ruling Questionnaire
,
wage tax
form and potentially an application for a BSN Number.
During COVID a letter stating your requirement to relocate to the Netherlands at such time is required, the People Operations team member will provide the vendor with such, using the following
template
A completed health declaration form, the vendor will provide this to you
.
Details on that process can be found under the BSN number section on the
visas page
in the handbook.
Once the approved Visa and 30% ruling is received by the team member, the team members should email this to PeopleOps for filing in Workday.
Sometimes the BSN might not be ready for the first Payroll, if this happens team members can still be on the Dutch Payroll, it just means the highest rate of tax will apply for this period. Any overpaid tax can be claimed back via
a year end tax return
. When you receive your BSN please ensure to add to your Workday profile and email
nonuspayroll@gitlab.com
to let them know. Any Payroll queries should be directed to
nonuspayroll@gitlab.com
If applicable due a temporary contract: Click on ‘job change’ actions to ‘add contract’. Fill in start and end date, contract type and reason.
Review
best practices
for The Netherlands contracts
India
Relocating
to
India
Once the relocation has been approved, the People Operations Specialist asks the relocating team member in a HelpLab case: “Please select your
Provident Fund contribution
election:
Uncapped percentage-based: 12% of basic salary per month
OR
Capped amount: 1800 INR per month"
Once the provident fund election has been confirmed the People Operations Specialist uses
this calculator
to determine the compensation breakdown for the relocation contract.
When the relocation is entered in Workday, the workspace (Karnataka) and (if applicable) the provident fund allowance will need to get updated.
When working through the “Change Location” business process, scroll to the Allowance section and click on “Add” > Compensation Plan >
Select applicable ‘Compensation Plan’ as confirmed by the team member:
“Provident Fund (INR)” if cappend OR
“Provident Fund (%)” if uncapped
Note: Further Provident Fund fields will pre-populate and must not be changed
Germany
Relocating
to
Germany
These are the steps our People Operations team uses to send contracts to team members relocating to, or moving from Germany.
From 1 January 2025, certain employee documents in Germany can be issued via DocuSign and will no longer require a wet ink signature. An employment contract for a team member relocating to Germany can be issued through DocuSign.
Review current
onboarding tasks
for Germany and ensure necessary paperwork is filled out.
Relocating
from
Germany
Relocation Contract and Mutual Termination Agreement Process for Germany
The requirement for a wet ink signature in Germany, although removed for certain employment documents, will still apply to termination documents in order for them to be valid. If a team member is relocating
from
Germany resignation letter or a Mutual Termination Agreement (MTA) must be wet ink signed by an authorised signatory for the German entity.
Once a Mutual Termination Agreement (MTA) has been created by the People Operations Team member, next steps are to stage the documents in DocuSign, while also sending the documents to an authorised signatory for the German entity to have them physically sign and mail the documents.
Stage the documents for signature in DocuSign. This document will be sent to the Signatory first and then to the team member.
Once signed, save the file into the team members Workday profile.
Reach out to legal, employment for support with selecting a signatory and starting the process for having the documents physically signed and mailed by both the signatory and the team member.
Open the saved unsigned contract, confirm the GitLab signatory (once decided) is in the  required places:
Summary Key of Terms
- Delete the GitLab Signatory’s name and leave the field
blank.
Scroll down to the end of the contract
- replace Signatory’s name with “GitLab Signatory”. Save
the contract as a PDF format.
In the body of an email, you will need to explain the below steps for the process.
To (recipients)
-  Designated GitLab signatory & Team member’s GitLab email address
Subject line
: Please Send Physical Contract for “Name of the team member”
Attachment
: attach the unsigned PDF contract
The Designated GitLab signatory will need to print two copies of the document. They will need to sign both of the copies, and then mail them to the team member. Please include the address and phone number of the team member in the email.
Once the team member receives the documents in the mail, they will keep one copy and then will need to sign and send the other copy to the signatory or to the address requested. Please include the return mailing address in the email.
The postage fees can be submitted for reimbursement. Please also include that information in the email.
It is also best practice to recommend in the email that both parties confirm that they have mailed the document.
Once the designated signatory receives the signed documents (signed by both parties), they should also send a scanned copy of the signed documents to the People Operations team - please also include that request in the email. This document will need to be saved in the team member’s Workday profile.
Canada
Relocating between Quebec and Non-Quebec
The People Operations Team member creates the applicable
Employment Agreement
due to the contractual differences of the provinces.
The People Operations Team member adds the following details to the contract:
Start Date:
add effective date of relocation
Add this line underneath the start date at the top: “Continuous Service Date:
add original hire date
”
Add this sentence to the section above 1. Position: “Your continuity of service for all employment purposes begins on the
add original hire date: YYYY-MM-DD
”
Spain
Relocating
to
Spain
Before
choosing a template or creating a contract, the People Operations Lead should reach out to
legal-employment@gitlab.com
with the details of the role the relocating team member has for support with classification of the role under the applicable CBA. The clasification will determine the choice of template used for creating a contract.
If the relocating team member does not yet have an address or NIE in Spain, legal, employment can provide a separate template for use (once the role has been classified).
South Korea, France or Singapore
Relocating
to
South Korea
The People Operations Lead shares the relocation contract with
gitlabHRSS@globalupside.com
. Global Upside then sends an Egnyte (payroll platform) login invitation email to the relocating team member.
Relocating
to
France
France requires contracts to be individually drafted by the Legal team.
Team member relocating to France will also receive an invite to Mihi (time tracking)
If a team member relocating to France is an expatriate who has not been a French tax resident for the 5 calendar years before the calendar year during which they relocate, and they wish to assess their eligibility for the impatriate tax regime, they must let People Operations know three months in advance that they will be undertaking the assessment. The People Operations team can reach out to
legal-employment@gitlab.com
for support with appropriate contract language once the relocating team member confirms their eligibility.
Note that eligibility is a complex tax matter and the relocating team member should check with their personal tax advisor.
Relocating
from
France
The relocating team member needs to resign from GitLab France S.A.S. with a notice date effective one day before the start date of their new contract. Please email the resignation letter to
legal-employment@gitlab.com
and also
upload the resignation letter to your Workday profile
. This is required to process your exit in France while you are simultaneously onboarded in the new country.
Once the resignation letter has been emailed to
legal-employment@gitlab.com
and uploaded to Workday, the People Operations team member will share
this letter
with the team member relocating away from France for e-signature via DocuSign as soon as possible (and at least within 7 days) in order to waive the balance of the notice period and address any additional matters. Once signed, the People Operations team member will uplaod the letter to the team member’s ‘Contracts & Changes’ Workday folder.
Reporting for Relocations
Access to the ‘GitLab Team Member Relocations’ Workday report can be requested via
this issue
and automatically sent on a regular basis.
This report will include the following information:
Team Member Name
Manager
Relocation Date
Starting Location
Ending Location
Steps for a Canceled Relocation Request
In the event that the team member decides not to proceed with the relocation. Not all of these steps will be needed, depending on how far into the relocation process has taken place.
Delete the respective contracts from Google Drive and Workday, if signed
Notify stakeholder of the change.  Possible stakeholders:
PEO
Payroll
HRSavvy
Workday - Update fields that were changed for the relocation.
Update
relocation tracker
Last modified April 10, 2026:
Remove Outdated Link to Employment Solutions Page Content (Development page) (
3b704996
)
View page source
-
Edit this page
-
please
contribute
.