SOURCE: https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/finance/
============================================================

Finance
Welcome to the GitLab Finance Handbook
The GitLab Finance Department includes multiple Teams: Accounting, Financial Planning & Analysis, Tax and Business Operations Programs.
Quick Links
Finance Issues
Please use confidential issues for topics that should only be visible to team members at GitLab.
Accounts Payable
Expense Guidelines
Operating Metrics
Procurement
Sales Comp Plan
Signature Authorization Matrix
Authorization Matrix Policy
Stock Options
Forms
2025 GitLab Inc W-9 Document and Certificate of Residence
Form CA-590 - Please request by email to
tax@gitlab.com
Correspondence
Please use the
#finance
chat channel in Slack for questions that don’t seem appropriate for the issue tracker or internal email correspondence.
Accounts Payable
- inquiries which relate to vendor and merchant invoices, or team member’s expenses should be sent to our Accounts Payable mailbox -
ap@gitlab.com
. You can also reach the AP team on Slack in the
#accountspayable
or
#expense-reporting-inquiries
chat channels.  Invoices that require payment processing should be sent to
ap@gitlab.com
.
Billing Operations
- customer billing inquiries should be sent to our Billing mailbox –
billing@gitlab.com
.
Accounts Receivable
- customer payment/remittance inquiries should be sent to our Accounts Receivable mailbox -
AR@gitlab.com
Payroll
- inquiries which relate to contractor invoices should be sent to our Payroll mailbox -
nonuspayroll@gitlab.com
.
CFO Approvals
Please use the
#cfo-approvals
chat channel in Slack for alerting the CFO to a request for his approval
Tag the CFO’s Staff EBA in the Slack request for visibility and followup
Appropriate Finance team members in the approval flow must approve prior to requesting CFO approval
All requests must go through the appropriate approvals process, include a link to the Issue or description and receive all approvals prior to requesting CFO approval
We
Finance
Finance Handbooks
Accounting
Business Technology
Financial Planning & Analysis
Investor Relations
Tax
General Topics
Legal and Financial Information
For commonly requested company information, please visit our
wiki page
.
Company Accounts
Login information for the following accounts can be found in the Secretarial vault
on 1Password:
FedEx
Amazon
IND (Immigratie en Naturalisatie Dienst, in the Netherlands) company number
If you need this information but cannot find it in your shared vaults, check with the People Operations Team members to get access.
Fiscal Year
A fiscal year is a one-year period that corporations use for accounting and budgeting.
GitLab’s Fiscal Year runs from February 1 to January 31. The fiscal year naming correlates to the ending month of the given fiscal year, for example FY27 is GitLab’s fiscal year running February 1, 2026 to January 31, 2027.
Q1: February 1 through April 30
Q2: May 1 through July 31
Q3: August 1 through October 31
Q4: November 1 through January 31
Fiscal Year
Calendar Year
FY27-Q1
2026-02-01 to 2026-04-30
FY27-Q2
2026-05-01 to 2026-07-31
FY27-Q3
2026-08-01 to 2026-10-31
FY27-Q4
2026-11-01 to 2027-01-31
Refer to our
writing style guidelines
for proper use of date formats.
Revenue non-committee
Internal Management Members:
Chief Financial Officer (DRI), Chief Executive Officer, Chief Revenue Officer (model, guidance, plan, target)
Invoice template and where to send
Vendor invoices are to be sent to
ap@gitlab.com
and
payroll@gitlab.com
for contractors. An
invoice
template can be found in Google Docs by the name of “Invoice Template”.
Non-US contractors not from Hungary, Italy, Japan, New Zealand, Nigeria, South Africa, Switzerland, and Ukraine will get pay their monthly wages and expenses through iiPay. Here is the process:
enter bank information in Workday under Bank Information tab. Note - new contractor should enter their bank information within 3 business days from their start date.
enter VAT number if it is available
submit monthly salary/bonus/commission invoice in through Google form by the 8th of each month (as described to you during onboarding)
submit expenses through Navan Expense by the 8th of each month
the scheduled payment date is the 22nd of each month
iiPay will send out remittance advice along with the scheduled payment via your GitLab email address
Non-US contractors from Italy, Nigeria, South Africa, Switzerland, and Ukraine will need to send their monthly invoice for salary/bonus/commission and any
expenses
by the 15th to
payroll@gitlab.com
.
In many cases, VAT will not be payable on transactions between GitLab BV and EU-based
vendors/contractors, thanks to “Shifted VAT”. To make use of this shifted VAT:
The vendor/contractor writes the phrase “VAT shifted to recipient according to
article 44 and 196 of the European VAT Directive” on the invoice along with the
VAT-number of GitLab IT BV (NL860316828B01).
On the vendor’s VAT return the revenue from GitLab BV goes to the rubric “Revenue within the EU”. It goes without saying that vendors are responsible for their own correct and timely filings.
GitLab BV files the VAT on the VAT return, and is generally able to deduct this VAT all as part of the same return.
Timesheets for Hourly Employees
People Ops and Finance will share a private Google Sheet with you where you will log your hours for each day in the “hours” column.
There is a dropdown in the “pay type” column, with the default being Regular. There are also options for Overtime, Vacation, Sick, and Bereavement. Choose the appropriate pay type for your time.
If you work overtime or more hours than agreed upon in your contract, please obtain approval from your manager and forward to Finance before payroll cutoff.
Your timesheet is due one day prior to the submit payroll date, which is outlined for the calendar year on your timesheet.
How spend is allocated to departments
Budgets are aligned to departments, and budgets follow the owner who requested the spend. When determining who should request the spend, consider the owner of the outcome.
For example, work to enable a sales partner that will not be incorporated into the product would go to Sales. Work that will be part of the product and supported by engineering, should be charged to the Engineering budget.
Finance Business Partner Alignment
Function
Name
Customer Support
R&D Finance
R & D
R&D Finance
Sales
Sales Finance
Professional Services
Sales Finance
Marketing
Marketing Finance
G & A
Ellen Boyd and Jess Smith
Types of Work that the team does
Level 1: Keeping the lights on activity. Always striving to make this area as efficient as possible so more Layer 2 focus can be attained. Example: closing the books.
Level 2: Operational Efficiencies, Business Engagement and Partnering, actionable insights for the organization. Examples: improving close process, partnering with sales to make a business decision
Travel Safety and Security
Travel Safety and Security Team member safety and security are a top priority for GitLab. If a team …
Accounting and Reporting
This page contains GitLab’s accounting and reporting policies, which can be made public. …
Accounts Payable
This page contains GitLab’s Accounts Payable department policies, procedures and guidelines. …
Authorization Matrix
Please refer to the authorization matrix here
Committee Composition
Disclosure Committee Composition Chairperson: Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, …
Finance Growth and Development
Welcome to the GitLab Finance Growth and Development Page
The GitLab Finance Department is dedicated …
Finance Team Performance Indicators
Executive Summary KPI Health Status Recurring revenue variance ex-JV Confidential Confidential …
Financial Planning & Analysis
Welcome to the FP&A Team Handbook. Our missions is to maximize GitLab's long-term valuation by enabling e-group and FP&A to plan, prioritize, and execute effectively
GitLab Finance Team READMEs
Learn more about working with various members of the Finance team
Global Travel and Expense Policy
This is a Controlled Document Inline with GitLab’s regulatory obligations, changes to …
Investor Relations
We have an externally facing investor relation website. The page you are on now the handbook that …
JiHu Support
How the GitLab Inc team provides support to JiHu
Payroll
Please refer to the Payroll internal handbook page …
Sales Compensation Plan
FY23 Compensation T&Cs can be found in the Internal Handbook: …
Spending Company Money
All team members and contractors must protect our Company assets, such as equipment, supplies, cash, …
The GitLab Procurement Team
What is Procurement? The Procurement team manages GitLab’s Supplier Lifecycle through the …
The GitLab Tax Team
The tax department is responsible for GitLab's overall tax strategy including all components of tax compliance, tax planning and accounting for income taxes. In addition, the tax department manages GitLab's statutory requirements including statutory audits, filing of entity-level financial information, transfer pricing, and ensuring intercompany transactions are recorded appropriately.
The Internal Audit Function
Please refer to the Internal Audit page in the internal handbook.
Timekeeping Policies and Procedures
Internal handbook link
Last modified February 12, 2026:
Update FY handbook page for FY27 (
0067cfa8
)
View page source
-
Edit this page
-
please
contribute
.