SOURCE: https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/tools-and-tips/
============================================================

Tools and tips
Overview
This page contains useful tips for working at GitLab and for various tools we use.
GitLab tips
Change your username at GitLab.com
Starting point: let’s say your username is
old-mary
and you want it to be just
mary
.
Note:
each GitLab account is tracked by an
userID
, which is a number stored in a database.
If we change the username, the userID does not change.
And all the permissions, issues, MRs, and relevant stuff within GitLab are related to your
userID
, not with your username.
Note:
if you are not a GitLab Team member, the same process applies except your e-mail (
STEP 2
), which will be different (will not be @gitlab.com email), so you can replace it with your own email account.
STEP 1: Request your new username
As of this
Merge Request
, it is no longer possible to request a username via the
Namesquatting process
. If the username you wish to use is unavailable, you will have to pick a different one.
STEP 2: Create a new account with your new username
If support replies to you telling that the username is free to use, create a new GitLab.com account with it.
Use a personal email to register your new account and choose one that has not been used with your old GitLab account.
Navigate to your
Profile Settings
>
Emails
, and add a new email.
⭐️
Trick
⭐️ If your email at GitLab is
mary@gitlab.com
, add the new email as
mary+something@gitlab.com
: this is a
Gmail trick
! All your emails sent to this alias will end up in your GitLab email account 😃
Navigate to
https://gitlab.com/-/profile/notifications
and choose the notifications email:
mary+something@gitlab.com
.
Open your old account in one browser and the new one in another browser (e.g., Chrome and Firefox, or Chrome and Safari) - log in to both accounts at the same time.
STEP 3: Let’s have some fun (kidding, this is critical!)
Navigate to
https://gitlab.com/-/profile/account
in both your accounts.
Look for your username.
This operation has to be done quickly, otherwise you are risking to lose your awesome new username to someone else quicker than you.
We need to
swap
the usernames between both accounts, so you’ll keep all your history, your privileges, issues, and MRs assigned to you, etc.
If you work with 2 monitors, open each browser on one monitor.
If you don’t, open them side by side, so that you can keep an eye on both at the same time.
Rename your new username
mary
to something like
mary-1
and
DO NOT
click
update username
yet.
Rename your old username
old-mary
to your new username
mary
and
DO NOT
update that either.
Just leave them typed into the boxes.
Make sure you did the previous step right!
⚠️
CRITICAL
⚠️ Update the first one (
mary
to
mary-1
).
Immediately, click
update
on the other one (
old-mary
to
mary
).
Immediately, rename the
mary-1
to your old one
old-mary
and click
update username
again.
Ta-Da! 🙌
STEP 4: Move your projects (or not)
Now, if you have any personal projects, you might want to import them to your new account (the one that has your old username now).
To do that, in your new account (the one with the old username), click
Create a New Project
, give it the very same name as the original one, click
Git - add repo by url
, and paste the
https://
URL of your project there.
To make things easier, make sure all the projects you want to import are set to
public
view.
You can make them private afterwards.
If you have GitLab Pages projects with the default
GitLab.io
url, you will need to import them to you new account, then make a change to
trigger a build
and redeploy your site.
They will be affected only if you’re using a
CNAME with a subdomain instead of an A record
.
This won’t affect Pages projects that use custom domains, as they all point to the same Pages server IP via
A
record.
Your groups won’t be affected either, as they operate under their own namespace.
Add both users as members of your groups and nothing changes.
That’s it!
STEP 5: Update your username in other places
Don’t forget to update your username in the following places:
team page
If you’re part of Marketing,
Marketing Handbook
Workday - GitLab Username under ‘Additional Data’ > ‘Edit Effective-Dated Custom Object’ in your profile actions
STEP 6: Set up your notifications
Team members choose to manage their GitLab activities in different ways. Setup your notifications in a way that works best for you.
To-do list:
all team members will see a
to-do list
within their GitLab account. This will track different action items. Items can be marked as done as they are completed.
Email:
team members can choose which, if any, notifications show up in their Gmail accounts by
using filters
.
Slack notifications:
team members can choose to enable
Slack notifications
. Please note that GitLab slack expires after 90 days, so this is not a tool for longer-term activity management.
GitLab team members’ resources
The
GitLab team-member resources project
has a wiki for sharing among
GitLab team-members
.
It’s for topics like parenting where people may want to share knowledge, but the handbook is not the best fit.
GitLab team members’ setups
@tipyn
’s
home office equipment and macOS setup
Linking Gravatar photo
Link your GitLab email address to an easily recognizable photo of yourself on GitLab, Slack, and
Gravatar
.
It is company policy to use a photo, and not an avatar, a stock photo, or something with sunglasses for any of your GitLab accounts, as we have a lot of GitLab team-members and our brains are comfortable with recognizing people; let’s use them.
Note
: If you upload your photo to Gravatar associated with your gitlab.com email, then you can simply not set an image in your GitLab and Slack profiles and they will automatically use your Gravatar photo.  If you already uploaded individual photos to your GitLab and Slack profiles, simply removing them will cause your avatar to use the Gravatar photo by default.
Using Mermaid
Mermaid is a tool that allows us to create flowcharts, graphs, diagrams, Gantt charts, etc. within GitLab! Check out the
examples in the GitLab docs
on how to use Mermaid.
A few additional resources that can be helpful when working with Mermaid are:
The
live mermaid editor
to check your work!
GitHub’s Mermaid overview
A
CSS color bank
to add color to your charts.
You can see an example of how to add images to Mermaid charts
here
.
Examples of Mermaid charts that have been created by GitLab team members:
Talent Development Program Chart
by
Cassiana Gudgenov
, People Compliance Partner
CEO Year at a Glance
Data Infrastructure System Diagram
Advanced layout demos
for Mermaid diagrams
Note: When creating Mermaid charts in the GitLab handbook, you need to type
three back tick symbols
followed by the word
mermaid
before the chart, and
three back tick symbols
at the end of the chart. This will enable Markdown to distinguish between .md and Mermaid. Please reference the example Mermaid charts linked above to see how this looks live.
Visual help to differentiate between GitLab servers
If you are working on multiple GitLab instances and want to have a visual differentiation, you can change the default
Navigation theme
to a different color.
Calculating the GitLab handbook page count
Page counts are determined through a simple two-step process:
Count the number of words in the handbook.
This can be done by running
find source/handbook -type f | xargs wc -w
from the root directory of the repository.
Submit the word count to
WordCounter
for conversion to a page count.
Trainee maintainer issue upkeep
Part of the
maintainer training process
is to keep track of Merge Request that have been reviewed and writing down an assessment on the review in the maintainer training issue.
Manual upkeep of the maintainer training issue can be time consuming. There are tools that others have built to help with this task:
https://gitlab.com/nolith/review-tanuki
https://gitlab.com/splattael/traintainer
https://gitlab.com/arturoherrero/trainee
https://gitlab.com/alberts-gitlab/review-tanuki
https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-dev-cli#maintainer-trainee-helper
Note:
When using these tools, avoid adding mentions to maintainers in existing comments. There is a
known issue
where users are not notified by email when mentioned in an edited comment. It only generates a TODO which a maintainer may not use.
Handbook Tips
Refer to the
Handbook Development section
to learn more about the architecture, structure and how to edit the handbook locally on your desktop. For how to edit the handbook in your browser, refer to
the editing handbook page
.
www-gitlab-com Tips
Portions of the
https://about.gitlab.com
site lives in the
www-gitlab.com
repo. The marketing website is maintained by the
digital experience team
in their
GitLab group
.
The
data/*.yml
files live in the
www-gitlab-com
repository, and are used by numerous sites including the marketing website and the handbook.
The documentation for the site itself is in markdown documents under the
doc
folder in the repo
. If you are looking to do local development on the site,
doc/development.md
is probably the best place to start.
Image and GIF tips
Many of the tips shown in this section require ImageMagick, an image manipulation tool. The installation is described in the
ImageMagick section
.
ImageMagick
ImageMagick
provides the
convert
CLI command which can be used to resize images, add drop shadows, edit GIFs, etc.
On macOS, install ImageMagick with Homebrew:
brew install imagemagick
On Linux, use your package manager:
sudo dnf install ImageMagick
sudo apt install imagemagick
Creating GIFs
We have a
dedicated section
for that in the handbook.
Resizing images
ImageMagick
provides the
convert
CLI command which can be used to resize images. Our blog images do not need resolutions higher than 1920x1080. This saves bandwidth and makes the website load faster.
This example converts an existing image to
1920x1080
resolution and replaces it inline:
convert blogimage.jpg -resize 1920x1080 blogimage.jpg
You can also use percentage values for the
-resize
parameter. The
convert
CLI command can do more things explained in the
documentation
.
If you need to convert multiple images, combine the
convert
command with
find
. Note that this replaces the images inline.
find . -type f -name
'*.jpg'
-exec sh -c
'convert {} -resize 1920x1080 {}'
\;
Convert HEIC to JPG
Tip: Modern macOS versions provide the Finder right-click menu
Quick Actions > Convert Image
which automatically converts an image to JPG. Use this method for quick UI conversions.
ImageMagick
provides the
mogrify
CLI command which can be used to convert the
HEIC
image format to other formats like
JPG
which are accepted on all websites.
mogrify -format jpg icloudphoto.HEIC
If you need to convert multiple images, combine the
mogrify
command with
find
. Note that this creates new files and requires manual cleanup of
.heic|HEIC
files,
-iname
uses a case insensitive match.
find . -type f -iname
'*.heic'
-exec sh -c
'mogrify -format jpg \"{}\"'
\;
An example shell alias can be found in
@dnsmichi’s dotfiles project
.
Add drop shadow to images
Install ImageMagick
and use the
convert
CLI command to add a drop shadow. The
-shadow
parameter may need adjustments on the dimension.
convert input.png
\(
+clone -background black -shadow 80x20+0+15
\)
+swap -background transparent -layers merge +repage output.png
Troubleshooting
2FA debugging
If 2FA stops working unexpectedly (no new phone or computer) it’s usually because of improperly configured date & time on either device.
Make sure that “Automatic Date & Time” is
enabled
on both devices.
If they’re already enabled try toggling them off and on again to force an update.
If this doesn’t work, request that IT Ops reset your 2FA setting.
Links for finding the settings:
iOS:
Get help with the date and time on your iPhone, iPad, and iPod touch - Apple Support
macOS:
If the date or time is wrong on your Mac - Apple Support
Linux (using systemd):
systemd-timesyncd - ArchWiki
For Android there’s no definitive link, since most vendors have different UIs for their settings.
But in the Settings-app, look for “Date & Time” and there should be a “Automatic Date & Time” toggle.
Check which process occupies a given port
Using Netstat
Netstat is a command line tool which can be useful to print network connections, routing tables, interface statistics, etc. One of the most common uses for netstat during troubleshooting is to display a list of open ports listening for connections.
sudo netstat -tulpn | grep -i listen
[
user@gitlab ~
]
$ sudo netstat -tulpn
|
grep -i listen
tcp
0
0
127.0.0.1:5000     0.0.0.0:*     LISTEN     18948/registry
tcp
0
0
127.0.0.1:9100     0.0.0.0:*     LISTEN     18841/node_exporter
tcp
0
0
127.0.0.1:9229     0.0.0.0:*     LISTEN     18764/gitlab-workho
tcp
0
0
127.0.0.1:8080     0.0.0.0:*     LISTEN     18980/unicorn maste
tcp
0
0
127.0.0.1:9168     0.0.0.0:*     LISTEN     18808/puma 4.3.3.gi
tcp
0
0
0.0.0.0:80         0.0.0.0:*     LISTEN     18831/nginx: master
If you find a port already in use, you won’t be able to successfully start up a service or program that utilizes that same port. Options to resolve are:
Stop the service currently running on the needed port and confirm the port is no longer in use
Review documentation to determine whether it is possible to specify an alternate port for either process (the existing one or your new service)
Known Port Conflicts
When the GitLab Development Kit cannot start using the
./run
command and Unicorn terminates because port 3000 is already in use, you will have to check what process is using it.
Running
sudo lsof -iTCP:3000 -sTCP:LISTEN -n -P
will yield the offender so this process can be killed.
It might be wise to alias this command in your
.bash_profile
or equivalent for your shell.
You may also wish to add a function in your
.bash_profile
(or equivalent file for your shell) like this:
function
killport
()
{
lsof -i tcp:
$1
|
awk
'(NR!=1) && ($1!="Google") && ($1!="firefox") {print $2}'
|
xargs
kill
}
which you can use like so:
> killport
3000
and it will kill whatever process is currently using port 3000.
Terminal
Display current git branch in the console
By adding this small configuration you will be able to view the git branch that you are using currently.
If you are not inside a git repository, it only displays the username and the current directory.
For Bash:
Add the following lines in your
.bash_profile
git_branch
()
{
git branch 2> /dev/null
|
sed -e
'/^[^*]/d'
-e
's/* \(.*\)/(\1)/'
}
export
PS1
=
"\u@\[\033[32m\]\w\[\033[33m\]\$(git_branch)\[\033[00m\]\$ "
Doing the following, makes the changes to get reflected in you current terminal:
source
~/.bashrc
For Zsh:
On macOS Catalina, ZSH is the
default shell
.
By installing
Oh My ZSH!
, the git plugin is automatically loaded and shows the current git branch.
Another option would be:
Add the following lines in your
~/.zshrc
parse_git_branch
()
{
git branch 2> /dev/null
|
sed -e
'/^[^*]/d'
-e
's/* \(.*\)/ (\1)/'
}
PROMPT
=
"%n@%d~%f%\$(parse_git_branch) %# "
The changes will show on the next terminal or immediately by running.
. ~/.zshrc
Shell aliases
Use command aliases in your shell to speed up your workflow.
Take a look at
these aliases
and others in
Sid’s dotfiles project
.
For example, by adding the following to your
.bash_profile
or equivalent for your shell, you can just type
s
to checkout the
master
branch of this website, pull the latest changes, and open the repository in Sublime Text:
alias
gco
=
'git checkout'
alias
gl
=
'git pull --prune'
alias
gca
=
'git commit -a'
alias
gp
=
'git push origin HEAD'
alias
www
=
'cd ~/Dropbox/Repos/www-gitlab-com/source'
alias
s
=
'www;subl .;gco master;gl'
After editing, you can just type
gca
to commit all of your changes, followed by
gp
to push them to the remote branch.
If you are using
Oh My ZSH!
, you can add custom aliases shown below. You can freely define the file name, only the suffix
.zsh
is important.
vim ~/.oh-my-zsh/custom/aliases.zsh
An example can be found in
Michael Friedrich’s dotfiles project
.
Delete local Git branches where remote branch was deleted
In order to delete local Git branches which are deleted on the remote server, you’ll need to combine the
--prune
pull/fetch command with more commands.
git branch -vv
lists all details of local branches, the followed
grep
filters for all marked gone in the default remote
origin
and prints the results with
awk
. This argument is passed into
git branch -d
, and executed for all matching results. Note that
-d
does not delete unmerged branches.
-D
has more impact but can accidentally delete branches.
# Delete all remote tracking Git branches where the upstream branch has been deleted
alias
git_prune
=
"git fetch --prune && git branch -vv | grep 'origin/.*: gone]' | awk '{print \$1}' | xargs git branch -d"
Run the command without the final deletion command to see the potential affected branches. Note that
\$1
is shell escaped in the alias and needs to be executed as
$1
.
git fetch --prune
&&
git branch -vv
|
grep
'origin/.*: gone]'
|
awk
'{print $1}'
Dotfiles
You can use dotfiles to customize your system, and keep all configuration in a central place. The name
dot file
is derived from Linux/Unix where all configuration files started with a dot, hiding them from the default list view
ls
.
Team member dotfiles projects:
Sid Sijbrandij’s dotfiles
Michael Friedrich’s dotfiles
, more details in
this blog post
Brendan O’Leary’s dotfiles
Traveling
Long haul flights
Note: you have to pay for these items yourself.
Quiet comfort Bose over ear noise canceling headphones
(so it doesn’t touch your dried out eyes)
Custom molded ear plugs (can be up to $200 hearing aid store but are usable in many situations, there are also
DYI kits
but Sid has not tried that)
Melatonin (possible unsafe during pregnancy and breast-feeding)
Sleeping pills (over the counter is fine)
WorkFrom
WorkFrom
is a crowd-sourced resource of coffee shops and other such places that are remote-work friendly.
Wi-fi usage
When using unsecured Wi-Fi, consider a personal VPN.
We
don’t have a corporate VPN
but consider
purchasing
a
personal VPN
if you travel for GitLab or use unknown networks often.
Remember that if your job has restrictions based upon geolocation (for example supporting customers with specific data restrictions and country-based access), a personal VPN may not be the best choice as often the VPN vendor routes traffic through other countries.
If this restriction applies to you, consider tethering.
Tethering
is when you set up your mobile phone as a hotspot and connect your laptop up to it via Wi-Fi, avoiding the unsecured Wi-Fi network.
There is more information
here
on the subject, and as long as your data plan supports it, you should be good to go.
Double check before international travel, as it may be supported but have hidden costs.
When connecting to a network with a
captive portal
, most websites will not load as modern sites use HTTPS, and captive portals interrupt that process.
Your device will try and compensate for this, but it can be tough to manage manually.
If you have trouble, try connecting to
https://captive.apple.com/
first, which is intentionally only HTTP and will load the captive portal.
FIDO2 / WebAuthn
FIDO2 is a cryptographically strong 2FA (2-factor authentication) method. It is hardware-based, and is typically deployed via a USB, NFC, or built into a device such as a MacBook’s Touch ID or iPhone’s Face ID. The standard is open and is maintained by the
FIDO Alliance
.
WebAuthn
is a component of FIDO2 that supports verification by web applications using public key cryptography. FIDO2/WebAuthn is the preferred method of 2FA and is highly recommended by GitLab’s Security Department. One of the points of 2FA is that while you are authenticating with a username and password for the first factor, a secondary factor should use a separate - or “out of band (OOB)” - communication channel for the authentication. FIDO2/WebAuthn devices certainly meet that criteria, better than all other methods. There are other 2FA methods
outlined below
.
How it works
During the authentication process, you enter in your username and your password. On systems with 2FA enabled and using FIDO2/WebAuthn, the hardware token is queried. By pressing a button or tapping a sensor on the FIDO2 device, the FIDO2 device completes the authentication process in a cryptographically strong way. It is generally considered the most secure form of 2FA. It is also more convenient than manually entering codes generated by a
TOTP
application.
During the registration of the FIDO2/WebAuthn device, a public/private key pair is generated, with the public key being registered with the service you will be authenticating with, and the private key is stored on a secure chip in the device. When authenticating, after you’ve entered in your username and password, the device is queried via an encrypted message that can only be authenticated by the private key, so a button or sensor is pressed on the device to allow the query to be completed, and the user is then granted access to the system.
FIDO2/WebAuthn devices
YubiKey: The most popular FIDO2/WebAuthn device is Yubico’s YubiKey. There are a wide variety of sizes and styles of YubiKeys. Yubico (along with Google) helped develop the predecessor to FIDO2 standard (U2F) before it was moved to the FIDO Alliance. Most GitLab team members that have WebAuthn devices have a YubiKey. It should be noted that for a long time Yubico’s source code for its firmware was open source, but some of the newer versions of firmware are closed source. This has caused some concern in the security community, particularly those that prefer to use open source whenever possible.
Are They Secure?
YubiKey has been examined by the security industry at large, third party audits and by the Security Team. YubiKey’s are more than suitable for use within GitLab and work fine with FIDO2/WebAuthn-compatible systems.
YubiKey has had a number of
security issues
which are typically resolved quickly. They have a dedicated page for security advisories.
In rare cases, a security issue involving a hardware token arises that requires the hardware token to be replaced as a firmware update will not mitigate the issue. This happened with
Yubico in 2017
.
Most of the attack models that impact the FIDO2/WebAuthn tokens require physical access to the token itself. That is, the security advisories involve coding issues that can only be exploited via access to the token or the computer that the token is plugged into. This in itself makes the devices more secure.
Recommendations
While there are other hardware tokens that are also decent and will function with GitLab, some have limitations. The recommended solution for team members is Yubico’s YubiKeys.
Please fill out this
form
before ordering a YubiKey, as we may be able to provide a YubiKey via our group buy subscription.
Recommended YubiKey models include the YubiKey 5Ci (for iPhone users) and YubiKey 5 NFC (for Android users).
What GitLab team members need to keep in mind is that if you travel with your company laptop - either on a business trip, a trip to visit family and friends in another location but you intend to keep working, or just a trip to the local coffee shop - treat the token with the same level of care as a credit card. Do not leave it where it could be stolen.
If you are concerned about potentially losing your hardware token, be sure to add
Touch ID
and potentially a
mobile device
as an accepted authentication token. Sites following the FIDO2/WebAuthn standard should support multiple tokens. That way if one is lost or stolen, you can still login use another method. Currently YubiKey’s are limited to one per user, in the case of lost or damaged, please reach out in the #it_security_help Slack channel and we’ll assist you with a replacement.
Usage of 2FA is mandatory for GitLab team members.
Other 2FA Methods
In addition to
FIDO2/WebAuthn
, there are additional protocols used for 2FA. There is “cryptographic push”,
TOTP
, and SMS-based authentication (text message). Pluses and minuses to each are listed below.
Cryptographic Push
This is usually shortened to simply “push technology”. It is called “push” because during the authentication process, after you’ve entered your username and password, the service you are authenticating with automatically “pushes” a secondary authentication via a separate communications channel to a device you possess. This is usually your phone, and it is facilitated via a phone app that is specific to that process. During the registration process a cryptographically-secure key pair is generated, and the app uses that key pair to uniquely identify the Push as coming from the service you are authenticating to. Typically the app then either directly notifies you or you access the app, which will pop up a message asking if you were in fact trying to authenticate. Answer yes and the authentication process is complete. GitLab team members may be familiar with this Push method as it is used by
Okta Verify
.
Push Caveats
This method is not quite as secure as a hardware token, as typically those devices stores data securely on the secure chip on the device itself. It is possible that the Push phone app is also storing secret data on the local secure chip on the phone, however the entire process is dependent on the service’s servers being up, and WebAuthn is more self-contained. But note that Push technology is still considered extremely secure, and once configured it is fairly convenient to use.
TOTP
Timed-based One-Time Password is fairly secure. This method involves a rotating value based off of a cryptographic seed that is used to uniquely identify communication between the service and the end user authenticating. The value is (usually) a six digit number that changes every 30 seconds, and during the authentication process after you’ve successfully entered in your username and password, you are asked to enter in the value. GitLab team members should use
1Password
to manage TOTP codes.
TOTP Caveats
The main problem with TOTP is that during this 2FA process it typically involves the end user entering in all values through a single communications channel (usually a web browser). As this is the case, it is possible that an attacker could send you a fake web page for you to enter in your credentials, including your TOTP value. Granted, the attacker would have to be reading your replies and sending in all of your credential information extremely quickly and get the entire process completed with 30 seconds so the risk is greatly reduced, but it still exists. Both WebAuthn and Push are preferred over TOTP, but as long as you are the one initiating the communication and you are not clicking on a link in email, you should be okay.
SMS
One of the more popular (and most common) methods of 2FA is SMS-based text messaging. It is similar to TOTP, but instead of using a locally-stored application to calculate the six digit number, the service you are authenticating to sends the six digits to you via an SMS text message. When you set up your account, you provide the service with your cell phone number so they know which phone number to send the six digits to.
SMS Caveats
Due to the number of caveats, SMS is only recommended if there is no other 2FA option available. Here are the main problems with SMS messaging.
SMS is subject to the same phish-style attack as TOTP. The main difference is that some SMS-based authentication schemes time out after 60 seconds instead of 30, making the phish-style attack slightly easier for the attacker.
The information regarding your phone number is stored on a SIM card in your phone. If an attacker with physical access to your phone were to steal the SIM, they could impersonate you from their own phone. Of course they could do the same thing with your hardware token, however they would still need your username and password to use the hardware token. Unfortunately, calling up the service and asking for your password to be reset is often confirmed using SMS messaging, so with the possession of the SIM card, the attacker could pose as you. Again, if you treat your phone the same way you treat your credit card or cash, then this type of attack is minimized.
An attacker could contact your phone carrier, impersonate you and state you lost your phone, and set up a new SIM card. Unfortunately many times your account is protected with a security question such as “mother’s maiden name”, “favorite restaurant”, or some other simple question - all information that could be determined from a website that does family trees or via social media where you post pictures of your dinner.
An older attack known as “
SIMJacker
” allowed an attacker to send your phone an SMS message with a malicious payload that allows for direct manipulation of the SIM card itself. This attack still works on older SIM cards, although more modern SIMs are no longer vulnerable to this. Most of the known attacks using SIMJacker involved Latin and South America, the Middle East, Northern Africa, parts of Eastern Europe, and parts of Southeast Asia.
If You Must Use SMS
There may be services that only offer SMS as their 2FA solution, so in those cases it is better than nothing. If this is the case, there are a few things you can do to secure things ever so slightly.
If you have an old phone (5+ years old) you might want to consider upgrading the SIM to a recent one, as these are not susceptible to the SIMJacker issues.
Contact your phone carrier and ask if there are additional security measures to protect your account besides security questions, such as a PIN. In lieu of that, you could also try setting your mother’s maiden name or family pet security questions to something more, shall we say, unique (e.g.
Hdyla86kajDF64asdlui
).
Set a SIM PIN. For iOS devices, follow these
instructions from Apple
. For Android devices, start with
these instructions
but contact your phone’s manufacturer website if the instructions do not fit your particular model.
Complain to the service to offer more than just SMS for 2FA! The more complaints they get, the more likely they might be to offer more secure options.
Additional 2FA Concerns
Remember the purpose of 2FA - it is a secondary authentication method, invoked after the primary authentication method has succeeded. You should only acknowledge a 2FA request if you personally have just successfully completed the primary authentication. An unsolicited 2FA request means someone has your password, and is in the process of trying to log in as you. This is why 2FA exists, to help protect your user account from attacks involving your password.
If you experience any such irregularities, please bring it to the attention of the Security Team. For more information, review the handbook regarding
Security Awareness
Slack
There is a lot of information pertaining to Slack, as it is a critical part of GitLab’s communication. See the
Slack handbook page
.
Zoom
There is a lot of information pertaining to Zoom, as it is a critical part of GitLab’s
communication. See the
Zoom handbook page
.
The
Google Calendar
invite is the single source of truth for the Zoom link. Avoid linking the Zoom link in Google Document agendas since those may quickly become out of date. If the zoom link changed around the start of the meeting it is OK to have it in there temporarily.
Google
Need a new document or new slide deck quickly? Use shortcuts like
https://doc.new
or
https://slide.new
. The full list (not even restricted to Google products) is available at
https://whats.new/shortcuts/
.
Google Docs
Google Docs Pro Tips
Quickly create a new Google Doc in chrome: type “docs.new” in the chrome address bar.
Likewise “sheets.new” for a Google Sheet etc…
While in a document with many other editors, click on the image or icon of any user at the top of the document to move focus to their cursor and what they are typing in the document.
This is great when someone is speaking about something they are typing on a video call and you are not sure where they are in the document.
Quickly find all action items assigned to you with a
search for
followup:actionitems
.
To add additional rows to a numbered list in a Google Document, press
Return
to add additional spaces under the existing numbered list in the document, highlight those spaces, and click the numbered list icon in the formatting bar (or press
Command ⌘ + Shift + 7
on a Mac) to create a numbered list from the spaces. See video on
how to add more rows to a numbered list
for a quick tutorial.
Type the
@
character to quickly embed today’s date, other document titles, references to people, and more; without clicking anything (a menu will pop up). See details in the
Smart Canvas
blog post and the
Add items with the @ menu
support doc.
Emoji live-search
can be accessed by typing
@:
, or shorter using the
:
character. Start typing to search for an emoji and press enter to insert.
Pageless docs are great for documents you don’t intend to print, and is the
preferred format at GitLab
. You can
switch in File > Page setup
.
See also
Live Doc Meetings
for more Google Doc tips.
Google Analytics
Google Analytics (GA)
is an essential tool for making data-driven decisions.
It receives data from both about.gitlab.com and docs.gitlab.com websites.
Read through the
Google Analytics Handbook
for more information on GA.
For example, you can look at the GA data to analyze how visited is a certain page, in a period of your choice.
You can also look at the GA referrals data to understand where the users are coming from and where they go when they leave a certain page.
Set your picture in Google
Optional:
Set your picture
in Google so that your picture will show where you are in a Google document (vs showing just your first intial). This will allow others to more easily follow a discussion when meeting attendees move around in a document.
Add name pronunciation in Google
Consider adding a phonetic pronunciation of your name and/or a pronunciation recording in your Google profile.
Click on your profile icon on the top-right of any Google account page (i.e. Google Docs, Google Sheets)
Select “Manage your Google account”
On the left-hand side panel, select “Personal info” » on the center of the page, go to “Name & pronunciation”
Add a recording or a phonetic pronunciation e.g. Rochana (Rosh-ah-na)
Google Calendar
Finding a time
Please make use of the Find a Time tab in Google Calendar, especially when scheduling events with teammates in other parts of the world:
Find a Time presents a new or existing event’s time for all participants, adjusting for time zones as appropriate.
To use Find a Time:
Create a new event or modify an existing event.
Click the “Find a Time” tab. Invited guests will be presented in the availability table and represented by a column.
Areas outside of someone’s working hours (9:00 AM - 5:00 PM by default) are represented in light grey.
Guests who are optional will not appear in the availability table by default.
You can add them by checking their name in the “Guests” area on the right hand side.
For meetings spanning across multiple time zones and with external parties,
Time & Date Calculator
can help determine the best time to schedule.
GitLab availability calendar
The GitLab Availability Calendar has been deprecated to allow for GitLab to scale effectively.
We have created
tools and tips for managing your time off
.
Setting working hours & location
To help other team members to schedule meetings with you, you can set your normal
working hours & location in Google Calendar
. The preferred times will show up when someone tries to schedule a meeting with you.
To set your working hours, go to
Settings
->
General
->
Working Hours & Location
.
Working location
can be set here or on your calendar directly by clicking on the pill in the
All day
row. In Settings there’s a helpful
Copy to all
option as well.
Since all GitLab Team Members work remotely
Home
can be an ambiguous choice as folks may travel and it doesn’t provide any context on timezones. If you’d like, you can choose
Somewhere else
(in Settings) or
Edit pencil
->
+
->
Another location
(from the pill) to set this to something such as
City, State, Country (GMT-#)
and keep it up to date when traveling or timezones shift, which can help folks with planning and understanding timezones.
GitLab Team Meetings calendar
The GitLab Team Meetings Calendar is available to all team members and can be found in your calendars list after it’s added. To add the GitLab Team Meetings Calendar to your list of calendars:
Go to
your calendar
Scroll the left sidebar down to
Other calendars
Press on
+
Select
Subscribe to calendar
Enter in the search field
gitlab.com_6ekbk8ffqnkus3qpj9o26rqejg@group.calendar.google.com
and then press enter on your keyboard
Please reach out to a People Operations Team member if you have any questions. NOTE: Please do NOT remove any meetings from this calendar or any other shared calendars, as it removes the event from everyone’s calendar.
You can find the details for the Company Calls, Group Conversations, 101s, and other teams’ meetings here, so you can attend a different teams’ meeting and ask questions, learn about what they’re working on, and get to know the rest of the GitLab Departments and teams.
These meetings are open to everyone in GitLab.
If you are creating a new team meeting, please
add it
to the GitLab Team Meetings calendar
Please reach out to the People Operations Team via
HelpLab
with any questions, requests or changes to the GitLab Team Meetings calendar.
Adding an event to the GitLab Team Meetings calendar
Create your calendar invite
Add your Zoom link
Add an agenda or relevant content
Under Add Guests, add
GitLab Team Meetings
in addition to anyone else you want invited (if you want the entire company invited please use everyone@).
Note:
This will appear like adding a room, which is expected