SOURCE: https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/communication/top-misused-terms/
============================================================

Top Misused Terms - GitLab Communication
List of Top Misused Terms
Below are terms people frequently use when they should use another term.
Misused terms
Alternatives
Reason Why
GitLabber
GitLab team member
"GitLabber" includes both the GitLab community and people who work at GitLab. When you want to refer specifically to people who work at GitLab,
use “GitLab team member” instead
.
International
Rest of world
Non-US or global
By definition, we are all international and global, regardless of where in the world we’re located. International and rest of world are often incorrectly used to speak to non-US, so we don’t use them to avoid confusion.
Enterprise Edition to reference a specific code or "Paid" users
EE Code or EE to reference a specific code or "Paid" users
MIT Licensed (code is open source) and Proprietary (code is source-available) to refer to code.
Free or Paid users to refer to types of users.
Enterprise Edition to refer to the specific distribution.
Community Edition and Enterprise Edition are only distributions, and not a license of our code, nor a pricing tier
.
Community Edition to reference a specific code or "Free" users
CE to reference a specific code or "Free" users
MIT Licensed (code is open source) and Proprietary (code is source-available) to refer to code.
Free or Paid users to refer to types of users.
Community Edition to refer to the specific distribution.
Community Edition and Enterprise Edition are only distributions, and not a license of our code, nor a pricing tier
.
Hi guys
Hi people
Hi everyone
We want to use
inclusive language
Aggressive
Ambitious
We want to
attract a diverse set of people
Employees
Team members
We have team members who are contractors
Resources
People
We are more than just our output.
Community
Wider community to refer to people outside of the company
People at GitLab are part of the community too
.
Radical transparency
Intentional transparency
Radical tends to be absolute and infers a lack of discretion. We are thoughtful and intentional about many things —
informal communication
,
handbook-first documentation
,
onboarding
, etc. — and have
exceptions to transparency
.
Sprint
Iteration
We are in it
for the long-term
and
sprint implies fast, not quick
.
Grooming
Refinement
The term has
negative connotations
and the word refinement is used by the
Scrum Guide
.
Obviously
Skip this word
Using things like “obvious/as we all know/clearly” discourages people who don’t understand from asking for clarification. Also, be aware of the
Curse of Knowledge
when communicating.
They
[Do not refer to other teams at GitLab externally as "they" (e.g., "Well, they haven't fixed that yet!").]
The Product team (example)
There is no “they” or “headquarters” - there is only us as team members, and it’s one team.
You could instead say something like “The Product team is looking at that issue…”.
When used in the context of a pronoun, they is as valid as he, she, or any other pronoun someone decides to use.
Deprecate
Delete
Remove
We usually mean we’re removing a document or feature whereas deprecation is leaving the thing intact while discouraging its use. Unlike other terms on this list, there
are
times where “deprecate” is the right word, for example in the formal
product process
.
Diverse candidate
Diversity candidate
Diverse team member
Diversity team member
Someone from an underrepresented group
A single person cannot be “diverse.” Using “diverse” as a noun is an “othering” term. Instead, someone may be from an underrepresented group. It is okay to describe a team or any collection of people as “diverse”, however.
Non-technical
[used to describe a person]
Usually, people mean “non-engineering.”
Everyone has technical knowledge that they used to perform in their role.
Documentation
[used to describe the handbook or the way that we communicate]
Handbook
Communication or specific type of communication material
Documentation often refers to the process of generating documentation after a change has been communicated. At GitLab, we
write things down
first
and then communicate. This way there is no need for documentation after the communication, a step that is frequently skipped.
Search
Elasticsearch
Global Search with the features Basic Global Search and
Advanced Global Search
.
Log Search
for the Analytics Stage logging feature.
Issue Search and Merge Request search for filtering and searching in those content areas.
Elastic log Stack
when referring to Elasticsearch and Filebeat.
There are many kinds of search in the GitLab application; use complete feature names to describe areas.
Telemetry
Seat link is the number of seats on a license
Version check
is what version of GitLab a subscription is using
Usage ping
is high-level data of how GitLab is being used in a license
Snowplow
is a dynamic site for web event analytics
Google Analytics
is a static site for receiving data from
about.gitlab.com
and
docs.gitlab.com
Database events is using the database records of GitLab.com to look at how people are using the application.
Product Usage Data is
data collected
on the customer’s account to be used within GTM tools such as Salesforce, Marketo, or Gainsight to improve retention and expansion
Avoid this word since it has the connotation of third-party analytics. It also is too broad so use something more specific.
Rule of thumb
Guideline or Heuristic
Rule of thumb is of
dubious historical origins
and can be considered a violent or non-inclusive term.
Deadline
Due date
Deadline
may have violent origins
and we use
due date
in our user interface for issues.
locked and loaded
prepared, ready, available
Locked and loaded
is a violent metaphor
, referring to guns.
Grandfathered
Legacy
Grandfathered has
discriminatory origins
.
Whitelist
Blacklist
Allowlist
Denylist
Whitelist/Blacklist have connotations about value and map to racial terms.
POC
Proof of concept
Point of contact
POC is ambiguous. It is often used to mean
proof of concept
or
point of contact
and in some cases it’s unclear which is meant. It can also be used when referring to
person/people of color
, so it’s best to spell out the intended use.
GitLab monitoring dashboard
GitLab metrics dashboard
Monitoring dashboard is too generic and is often confused with GitLab’s self-monitoring features.
Second-class citizen
Different class of team member
Being treated like you don’t belong/like an outsider
When referencing people, “different class of team member” or “being treated like you don’t belong/like an outsider” is preferred when discussing such environments, since citizen has political and socioeconomic connotations. In a
hybrid-remote
environment (e.g. not GitLab, which is
all-remote
), those outside of the office may feel inferior or deprioritized compared to coworkers who routinely work onsite.
Top of the hour
Bottom of the hour
Start of the meeting
While most timezones in the world are offset from UTC by a whole number of hours, a few are offset by
30 or 45 minutes
.
Middleman
Go-between
intermediary
middleperson
It is gender-specific and therefore exclusionary.
Poor man's solution
Boring solution
It is gender-specific and implies that someone with less money would come up with a substandard solution compared to someone who has more money.
Senior moment
I forgot
We should not associate forgetfulness with senior citizens.
Biweekly
Bimonthly
Twice weekly/monthly
Every two weeks/months
Biweekly and bimonthly are ambiguous terms.
Functional group leader
E-group
leader
The term “functional group leader” is a past term that has now been updated. See
Org Structure
.
Functional group
Department or team (depending on the context)
“Functional group” is a past term that is no longer used. See
Org Structure
.
Learning
Playbook
FAQ
Standard Operating Procedure
Training
The entire Handbook is our standard operating procedure.
Using these terms can confuse and lead to duplicate content. For example: Call it Contract Negotiation Handbook instead of Contract Negotiation Playbook
White-collar workers
Blue-collar workers
Knowledge worker
Trade worker
The original terms are outdated references and have socioeconomic connotations. There are also other
color classifications
that are less common.
Customer names mentioned in recorded or streamed meetings
Refer to a Google doc agenda listing the customer name
Use a codename
We want to train ourselves to not mention customer names to allow us to be as
transparent
as possible.  Whenever possible, we want to publicly stream our meetings to YouTube and to do that we need to be in the habit of not mentioning customer names. So we should avoid mentioning them even in
privately streamed meetings
.
Portal
CustomersDot
Stripe
Zuora Billing
The (Customer) Portal is an overloaded term that has come to represent multiple aspects in GitLab’s Fulfillment process. To disambiguate the different components of the system we should use more specific language.
Black Mark
Blemish
Blot
This phrase is meant to refer to a situation where someone remembers something you did and holds it against you unfairly in a later circumstance. However, it can unintentionally reinforce the idea that black is associated with negative or undesirable traits.
Poaching
Raiding
Voluntary Attrition
Recruiting
In the recruiting industry these are common terms to refer to companies targeting other company’s team members to hire them away. But they are violent and warlike. So it’s better to use the more literal, technical terms. While we want to keep voluntary attrition low as a company we should never forget that it is great for our team members if they get lots of great offers from other companies.
High Availability
Reference Architecture
Scaled Architecture
All solutions come with a
trade-off between cost/complexity and uptime
. Each availability component comes with complexity and maintenance. Users should thoroughly analyze the benefits of a solution against its costs and the team’s readiness.
Final Solution
Completed Solution
While often natural to use this phrase when referring to a theoretical end-point of a developing feature there is
historical sensitivity
around the term and its use during World War II.
Homepage
Marketing Homepage
Homepage Content
Both about.gitlab.com and gitlab.com has a
homepage
. Use “marketing homepage” to reference the homepage of
about.gitlab.com
and “homepage content” to reference the homepage of
gitlab.com
.
CPO as an abbreviation for Chief Product Officer
CProdO
Avoid name collision with our
Chief People Officer
.
TAM as an abbreviation for Total Addressable Marketing
TAMkt
Avoid name collision with the job-family of
Technical Account Manager
Drinking the Kool-Aid
Living our Values
This term is used pejoratively to refer to a person that believes dangerous ideas.
It can also be used with humorous intent to refer to extreme beliefs, particularly in the startup realm where companies are celebrated for disruption.
Unfortunately, it’s a reference to the
Jonestown
mass-suicide incident that took place in Guyana in 1978, and should be avoided because we don’t use violent analogies.
War of Attrition
Game of Cat and Mouse
A “war of attrition” refers to a prolonged conflict where each side seeks to wear out the other by a series of small actions. This might be used to refer to activities such as fending off comment/issue spam content or abuse of our CI system to mine cryptocurrency. A Cat and Mouse game refers to a constant pursuit with near captures and repeated escapes, which is preferable because it’s less violent and not a reference to warfare.
Livestream
Public or private stream
“Livestream” is ambiguous as to whether the stream is publicly or privately available. Using “public livestream” or “private livestream” is too long and people often shorten it to “livestream.” To ensure everyone knows the visibility settings of the stream, use “public stream” or “private stream.”
Seasons (Autumn/Fall/Spring/Summer/Winter)
Months (Jun-Aug, Mar-May etc) or more precise date ranges.
Seasons are different in the Northern vs Southern hemispheres and can
vary culturally
too, meaning they are not only imprecise but they can also be exclusionary to the other hemisphere or non-Western cultures.
Master (unless used to describe the mastery of a specific topic. )
Slave
Leader
Follower
Primary
Secondary
This language can be used to describe an unequal and harmful relationship between people. We can use language that is more consistent with our
DIB values
. The word “master” can be used in the context of mastery of a specific topic such as receiving a Master’s Degree.  In data, we master certain data categories like customer, product, employee etc. We will use the industry term Master Data Management (MDM) as a way to communicate our mastery over the topic of data.
Zuora
Zuora Billing
Zuora CPQ (Configure Price Quote)
Zuora Revenue
Zuora Orders
Alternatively, you can say Billing, Collect, Revenue, Orders, etc.
Zuora offers many products and using the term by itself does not specify what Zuora product you are referring to. Specifying the Zuora product will provide clarity and context to your audience.
CultureAmp
The name of the specific survey you are referring to - i.e., Global Benefits Survey, Engagement Survey, Values Survey, Inclusion Survey, etc.
CultureAmp offers many surveys and using the term by itself does not specify which CultureAmp survey you are referring to. Specifying the CultureAmp survey will provide clarity and context to your audience.
Reduction in Force (RiF)
Redundancy or dismissal for operational reasons
RIF
is short for Reduction in Force referring to “labor force” or “work force”, we don’t use this terminology to refer to team members or former team members. “Force” also has violent implications that should be avoided.
PII
Personal Data
PII is not the term used in most privacy laws and by definition PII is more narrow that what is legislated under global privacy laws. Personal Data is described in
in the Privacy Handbook
and
the GitLab Data Classification Levels
.
GitLab SaaS
SaaS (when referring to GitLab.com or Dedicated)
GitLab.com or .com
GitLab Dedicated or Dedicated
Both GitLab.com and GitLab Dedicated are delivered as SaaS applications, which as a group we refer to SaaS.
Consumption Pricing
The more specific consumption building block from the
Internal Pricing Handbook
Consumption can be defined in multiple ways, and when discussing a particular pricing strategy or product it’s important to be specific.
dark pattern
deceptive pattern
inaccessible pattern
confusing pattern
discriminatory pattern
exclusionary pattern
The phrase is meant to refer to a design pattern that causes a problem for users. Dark is used to mean bad which can unintentionaly reinforce the idea that dark is associated with negative or undesirable traits. More descriptive terms are better in general and help people understand more about the specific problem encountered.
Slack
Slackbot (
via configuration
) can remind team members when they use a misused term.
Last modified June 27, 2024:
Fix various vale errors (
46417d02
)
View page source
-
Edit this page
-
please
contribute
.