SOURCE: https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product-development/how-we-work/product-development-flow/
============================================================

Product Development Flow
Cross-functional product development workflow process and labeling.
Overview & philosophy
GitLab’s product mission is to consistently create products and experiences that users love and
value. To deliver on this mission, it’s important to have a clearly defined and repeatable flow for
turning an idea into something that offers customer value. Note that it’s also important to allow
open source contributions at any point in the process from the wider GitLab community - these won’t
necessarily follow this process.
This page is an evolving description of how we expect our cross-functional development teams to work, and reflects the current workflow being leveraged. All required actions or outcomes in this page are denoted as follows:
Denotes a required aspect of the product development flow.
Feature development is expected to pass through all phases to achieve specified outcomes, while the rest of the workflow should be considered as a set of best practices, tools, and recommendations. We realize there are unique cases in which certain product improvements may not need to flow through all the phases. We trust product managers to use their best judgement with alignment from their design and engineering team. The goal of this page is to support teams in their workflows by highlighting the necessary
outcomes
to target in each phase as well as sharing strategies/tactics,
activities
, teams can employ to achieve these  outcomes. Additionally, this page aims to clarify the
minimal
set of required actions, such as labels, needed across all phases to keep the product system efficient in terms of tracking, searching and cross-functional collaboration. To maintain clarity and avoid confusion, we do not list optional actions on this page but teams may choose to employ additional actions, such as labels for planning, even if they are not mentioned on this page.
As teams leverage the product development flow, they may find that certain strategies/tactics are serving their teams well toward success. Therefore, we welcome MRs to this page, so we can create a robust playbook of options to build valuable features for customers. All team members are encouraged to follow the
change process
for this page to share their best practices.
But Wait, Isn’t This Waterfall?
No. Although the phases described on this page appear to be independent and linear, they are not. They’re presented in this way for simplicity and ease of navigation. At GitLab, we do not promote working in a linear manner. Phases in the product development lifecycle may overlap or occur in parallel.
We aim to achieve key outcomes in each phase in order to de-risk subsequent phases. However, the product development flow doesn’t dictate the order we go through the phases, or the time spent in each. When teams have a high confidence in their direction, they should feel empowered to skip or shorten phases that won’t contribute to improved confidence.
Examples:
An engineering team conducts a technical review while other team members are performing Validation Phase activities. The team can then move to the Build phase rapidly with high confidence that their improvement is good for customers and technically feasible.
A bug is reported by a GitLab customer. The Product Manager tests the bug and confirms its existence (Problem Validation). The team is extremely confident in the solution, so Design and Solution Validation are not needed. The bug is moved immediately to Build.
Workflow Summary
Through the page, whenever a
DRI
is mentioned, the person referred to may be different depending on the phase, and there may be more than one.
For who the DRI is, refer to the
Product Development Roles and Responsibilities page
.
Product Development Flow diagram.
  Unable to load this content, check console for details.
We use issue statuses to efficiently communicate an issue’s state. Using these statuses enables collaboration across teams and communicates an issue’s current state.
The following diagram shows how a new issue moves through each status, though states can be skipped when appropriate. The rest of this document describes each workflow step in detail.
stateDiagram-v2
    [*] --> ValidationBacklog: New issue created
    ValidationBacklog: Validation backlog
    ProblemValidation: Problem validation
    ReadyForDesign: Ready for design
    Design: Design
    SolutionValidation: Solution validation
    ValidationBacklog --> ProblemValidation
    ProblemValidation --> ReadyForDesign: (Optional) Needs design
    ProblemValidation --> SolutionValidation
    ReadyForDesign --> Design
    Design --> SolutionValidation
    PlanningBreakdown: Planning breakdown
    Scheduling: Scheduling
    Refinement: Refinement
    ReadyForDev: Ready for development
    InDev: In dev
    InReview: In review
    Verification: Verification
    Complete: Complete
    Blocked: Blocked
    Security: Awaiting security release
    SolutionValidation --> PlanningBreakdown: PM signals intent to prioritize
    PlanningBreakdown --> Scheduling: (Optional) Awaiting scheduling
    PlanningBreakdown --> Refinement: (Optional) Needs refinement
    PlanningBreakdown --> ReadyForDev: Has type label & weight. Prioritization requires milestone, and Deliverable label.
    Scheduling --> ReadyForDev: Milestone assigned
    Refinement --> ReadyForDev
    ReadyForDev --> InDev
    InDev --> InReview: MRs ready for review
    InReview --> Verification: MRs merged
    Verification --> Complete: Verified in staging/prod
    InDev --> Blocked: Blocked by dependency/question
    Blocked --> InDev: Block resolved
    InReview --> Security: Waiting for monthly security release
    Security --> Verification: MRs merged and released in security update
    Complete --> [*]
Issue descriptions as the Single Source of Truth (SSOT)
Issue descriptions shall always be maintained as the single source of truth.
It’s not
efficient
for contributors to need to read every comment in an issue to understand the current state.
Issue description accuracy should be maintained by the DRIs throughout each phase. However all collaborators can and should contribute when they see discrepancies or needed updates.
Migration from Workflow Labels to Statuses
GitLab has transitioned from using scoped workflow labels (
workflow::*
) to using issue statuses for tracking progress through the Product Development Flow. The following mapping shows the equivalent status for each former workflow label:
Former Workflow Label
Current Status
workflow::validation backlog
Validation backlog
workflow::problem validation
Problem validation
workflow::ready for design
Ready for design
workflow::design
Design
workflow::solution validation
Solution validation
workflow::planning breakdown
Planning breakdown
workflow::scheduling
Removed
workflow::refinement
Refinement
workflow::ready for development
Ready for development
workflow::in dev
In dev
workflow::in review
In review
workflow::blocked
Blocked
workflow::verification
Verification
workflow::awaiting security release
Awaiting security release
workflow::complete
Complete
None
Duplicate
None
Won't do
Statuses provide a cleaner, more integrated way to track issue progress through the value stream.
Teams should update their workflows to use statuses instead of the corresponding workflow labels, which will be unsupported after 2026-02-27. Share tips and leave feedback in the
feedback issue
.
Prioritization
Guidance on what and how to prioritize is covered in:
R&D Interlock
Cross-functional Prioritization
Customer Issues Prioritization
Validation track
For situations
when the customer problem isn’t well understood
, Product Managers (PMs) and the User Experience Department (UXers) should work together to validate new opportunities before moving to the Build track. The
Validation
track is an independent track from the always moving
Build
track. PMs and UXers should work together to get at least two months ahead, so that the Build track always has well-validated product opportunities ready to start. Milestone work should be
prioritized
with the understanding that some milestones may include more validation efforts than others. Validation cycles may not be necessary for things like bug fixes, well understood iterative improvements, minor design fixes, and technical debt.
Validation Spectrum
The types of activities and depth of research required in the validation track will depend on how well we understand the customer problem and solution.
Validation Goals & Outcomes
When:
When our confidence about the proposed problem or solution isn’t high. For example, if we aren’t reasonably sure that the problem is important to a significant number of users, or that the solution is easy to understand and use.
Who:
Product Manager, Product Designer, UX Researcher, Product Design Manager, Engineering Manager
What:
✅
Understand
the user problem we are trying to solve.
✅
Identify
business goals and key metrics to determine success.
✅
Generate
hypotheses and research/experiment/user-test.
✅
Define
MVC and potential future iterations.
✅
Minimize
risks to value, usability, feasibility, and business viability with qualitative and quantitative analysis.
Outcome:
We have confidence that a proposed solution will positively impact one or more
Product KPIs
. There may be reason for exceptions, so the team would need to be clear in that case, and be able to justify that it’s still important without mapping back to our KPIs.
If we don’t have confidence in the MVC or what success looks like, we should continue validation cycles before we move to the Build track.
Validation phase 1: Validation backlog
Status:
Validation backlog
Description
The growth of a world class product is built from a well maintained backlog. Product Managers are responsible for refining a group’s backlog to ensure validation opportunities are scoped and
prioritized
in line with category direction, stage, and/or section level strategy. The backlog is also the single source of truth for
stakeholders
to understand and engage with your group. An issue position in the backlog, along with the description, discussion, and metadata on those issues are key pieces of data necessary to keep stakeholders up to date.
Outcomes and Activities
Outcomes
Activities
Up to date issues and epics
: At GitLab, issues are the single source of truth for any change to the product. Keeping these up to date increases efficiency and transparency by allowing all team members to understand the planned work.
- Create issues in response to a
sensing mechanism
. Consider using the
Problem Validation
issue template for new features.
- Review issue discussions and update relevant info in the description.
- Keep metadata (such as labels) up-to-date.
- Actively respond to stakeholder comments.
- Transfer discussion notes, and external information to the issue (as links or discussion/description details).
Prioritized backlog
: The issue and epic backlog is the primary signal stakeholders use to know what’s “up next” for a group. The backlog is also the queue for a group to work from, as features progress through the Product Development Flow phases. This queue is kept up to date with milestones and rank ordering on issue boards.
- Regular review of issue prioritization (such as issue board ordering and milestone assignment).
- Align prioritized backlog to category direction and maturity.
- Consider using the
RICE formula
to help make prioritization tradeoffs.
- Consider holding
prioritization sessions
to collect priority feedback from stable counterparts as there are
other DRIs for bug and maintenance work
.
Validation phase 2: Problem validation
Status:
Problem validation
Description
To ensure the right solutions are delivered, the team must start their work with a
validated problem
. This can take
many forms
.
If the problem is documented and well-understood, it may be possible to quickly move through this phase by documenting the known data about the user problem. A documented problem can be categorized as a pre-existing experience from feedback directly from users or an issue that has user engagement confirming that the problem is experienced by multiple users. A well-understood problem can be one that has a series of documented qualitative research from customer interviews, triangulating
different sensing mechanisms
confirming the problem, or using known data. Some examples of known data include
Customer Request Issues
or pre-existing
Actionable Insights
from prior research. To document that a problem is well-understood, link the known data and any customer calls to the relevant issues and epics.
If the problem is nuanced or not yet well understood, then it will likely take longer to validate with users properly. This phase’s primary outcome is a clear understanding of the problem, along with a simple and clear way to communicate the problem to various stakeholders. Although optional, it is recommended to use an
Opportunity Canvas
as a tool that helps individuals better understand a problem, and communicate it to various stakeholders. An Opportunity Canvas can also be used to recommend creation of a new category including asking for new resourcing.
Outcomes and Activities
Outcomes
Activities
Thorough understanding of the problem
: The team understands the problem, who it affects, when and why, and how solving the problem maps to business needs and product strategy.
- Create an issue using the
Problem Validation Template
in the GitLab project.
- Complete an
Opportunity Canvas
.
- Schedule a review of the opportunity canvas for feedback.
- Create an issue using the
Problem Validation Research Template
in the UX Research project and work with UX Researcher to execute the research study.
- Validate your problem with users using any of the
proposed methods
and
document your findings in Dovetail
.
Update issue/epic description
: A well understood and clearly articulated customer problem is added to the issue, and will lead to successful and efficient design and development phases.
- Ensure your issue is up-to-date with the latest understanding of the problem.
- Understand and document (in the issue) the goals that people want to accomplish using the
Jobs to be Done (JTBD)
framework.
- Conduct
continuous interviews
with customers on a regular cadence to stay up-to-date on the problems that users face.
- Leverage your
opportunity canvas
to communicate the problem to your stable counterparts and group stakeholders. Consider scheduling a review to gather feedback and communicate the findings to Product and UX leadership.
- Confirm that the Product Designer understands the problem well enough to ideate on solutions.
Initiate the Dogfooding Process: When validating problems, it’s important to gather feedback from
internal customers
, in addition to the broader community. Capturing internal customer feedback early on in the product development flow helps ensure their needs are considered as the feature matures, accelerating key
Dogfooding
outcomes. Driving internal usage of features consistently
leads to greater customer adoption
.
- Open
Dogfooding issues
during the validation phase and capture internal customer feedback to help inform initial and/or future iterations of a feature.
Validation phase 3: Ready for Design
Status:
Ready for design
Description
After completing problem validation, issues that require design work should be moved to the “Ready for Design” state. This state serves as a queue for the design team and ensures that design work begins only after the problem has been properly validated and documented. This phase helps coordinate handoffs between product management and design teams, ensuring designers have all the necessary context and validated problem statements before beginning solution ideation.
To start the Ready for Design phase, set the issue status to
Ready for design
.
Outcomes and Activities
Outcomes
Activities
Clear problem statement ready for design
: The issue contains a well-documented and validated problem statement that provides sufficient context for design work to begin.
- Ensure the issue description contains a clear problem statement from the Problem Validation phase.
- Verify that user research findings and insights are documented and accessible.
- Confirm that any relevant user personas, jobs-to-be-done, or user journey information is available.
- Review that business goals and success metrics are clearly defined.
Design team awareness and capacity
: The design team is aware of the upcoming work and has capacity to begin the design phase.
- Communicate with the assigned Product Designer about the upcoming design work.
- Ensure the designer understands the problem context and has access to all relevant research.
- Confirm design team capacity and expected timeline for design work.
- Schedule any necessary handoff meetings or design kickoffs.
Technical constraints documented
: Any known technical constraints or considerations that may impact design decisions are documented and communicated.
- Document any technical limitations or constraints that should inform design decisions.
- Ensure engineering team input on feasibility has been captured where relevant.
- Note any platform-specific considerations (web, mobile, API, etc.) that may affect the design approach.
Validation phase 4: Design
Status:
Design
Description
After understanding and validating the problem, we can begin or continue to ideate potential solutions through a
diverge/converge
process. However, if the outcome from the problem validation phase confidently suggests an incremental modification to the existing solution, the aforementioned diverge/converge process could be skipped.
This phase involves ideating potential solutions and exploring different approaches (diverge) before converging on a single solution. Solutions are evaluated by determining if they meet customer and business goals, are technically feasible, and align with legal compliance considerations. The team is encouraged to engage with stakeholders to determine potential flaws, missed use cases, potential security risks, and if the solution has the intended customer impact.
THe DRI is responsible for reviewing the
Legal Risk Checklist
(accessible to team members only) and determining whether any sections need to be completed. After the team converges on the proposed solution or identifies a small set of options to validate, the issue moves into the Solution Validation phase.
To start the Design phase, set the issue status to
Design
.
Outcomes and Activities
Outcomes
Activities
Proposed solution(s) identified and documented
: The DRI works with the team to explore solutions and identifies the approach(es) that strike the best balance of user experience, customer value, business value, and development cost.
Diverge
: explore multiple different approaches as a team. Example activities:
-
Think Big
session.
Internal interviews (be sure to
document findings in Dovetail
).
- Creating
user flows
.
Converge
: identify a small set of options to validate. Example activities:
-
Think Small
session with the team.
- Design reviews with team
- Low fidelity design ideas.
- Update issue/epic description with proposed solution. Add Figma design file link or attach design to
GitLab’s Design Management
to communicate the solution idea.
- Validate approach with help from stakeholders. Run user validation using any of the
proposed methods
and
document your findings in Dovetail
and appropriate GitLab issue.
- Draw inspiration from competitive and adjacent offerings.
Shared understanding in the team of the proposed solution
: The DRI leads the broader team through a review of the proposed solution(s).
- Review the proposed solution as a team so that everyone has a chance to contribute, ask questions, raise concerns, and suggest alternatives.
- Review the proposed solution with leadership.
Confidence in the technical feasibility
: It’s important that Engineering understands the technical feasibility of the solution(s) to avoid rework or significant changes when we start the build phase.
- Discuss the technical implications with Engineering to ensure that what is being proposed is possible within the desired timeframe. When sharing design work, use both Figma’s collaboration tools and GitLab’s design management features.
- Engage engineering peers early and often through Slack messages, pings on issues or by scheduling sessions to discuss the proposal.
- If the solution is large and complex, consider scheduling a
spike
to mitigate risks and uncover the optimal iteration path.
Updated issues/epic descriptions
: The DRI ensures issues and epics are up-to-date.
- Ensure issues and epics are up-to-date, so we can continue our work efficiently and asynchronously.
-
Experiment definition
.
Continue Dogfooding process
- If applicable to their feature, the DRI continues the Dogfooding process by deciding whether to
build the feature in GitLab or keep outside
the product.
Validation phase 5: Solution Validation
Status:
Solution validation
Description
After identifying one or more potential solutions that meet business requirements and are technically feasible, the DRI must ensure that we have confidence that the proposed solution will meet the user’s needs and expectations. This confidence can be obtained from work performed during the design phase and supplemented with additional research (including user interviews, usability testing, or solution validation). If necessary, this phase will launch a Solution Validation issue within the
GitLab UX Research project
which will walk the team through research to validate their proposed solution(s).
In addition, any
non-functional requirements
for the feature need to be considered and documented. These include such things as evaluating whether or not
application limits
need to be introduced, or any
considerations around data storage
should be evaluated. Defining these non-functional requirements up front ensures we are considering scalability and the long-term success of the feature. Sensible default values should be identified at this stage which align with the long-term vision for the feature.
To start the Solution Validation phase, set the issue status to
Solution Validation
.
Outcomes and Activities
Outcomes
Activities
High confidence in the proposed solution
: Confidence that the jobs to be done outlined within the problem statement can be fulfilled by the proposed solution.
- Gather feedback from relevant stakeholders.
- Follow
solution validation guidance
to gather feedback.
Documented Solution validation Learnings
: The results of the solution validation is communicated to and understood by team members.
- Document solution validation findings as
insights in Dovetail
.
- Update the
opportunity canvas
(if used) with relevant insights.
- Update issue or epic description to contain or link to the findings.
Build track
The build track is where we plan, develop, and deliver value to our users by building
MVCs
, fixing defects, patching security vulnerabilities, enhancing user experience, and improving performance. This track is also a time
when we get insight into whether we are creating the right thing
for our users. The team works closely together to implement MVCs. Decisions are made quickly if challenges arise. We instrument
usage
and track
product performance
, so after MVCs are delivered to customers, feedback is captured quickly for learnings to
refine the next iteration
. For an example of how to leverage GitLab’s various features to create a focused and collaborative board to flow through the Build track,
check out this video
.
Build Goals & Outcomes
When:
As we build MVCs according to our
product development timeline
Who:
Product Manager, Product Designer, Development team
What:
✅
Release
to a subset or full set of customers as appropriate.
✅
Assess
UX, functional, technical performance, and customer impact.
✅
Collect
data to measure MVC against success metrics to inform the next iteration.
✅
Iterate
until success metrics are achieved and the product experience is optimal.
Outcome:
Deliver performant MVCs that improve one or more of our
Product KPIs
and/or
Engineering KPIs
. If it fails to do so, honor our Efficiency value (that includes a low level of shame), abandon it, and restart the validation cycle to identify the right solution.
Build phase 1: Plan
Required Statuses
Status
Usage
Planning breakdown
Set by the DRI on or before the
4th of the month
signaling an intent to prioritize the issue for the next milestone.
Ready for development
Issue has been broken down and prioritized for development. Issue also has a
work type classification
(
type::
) label and milestone assigned at this point.
Required Labels
Label
Usage
Deliverable
Applied to issues by DRI indicating it’s been accepted into the current milestone.
Description
This phase prepares features so they are ready to be built by engineering. Bugs, technical debt, and other similar changes that are not features may enter the process in this phase (or may benefit from entering in earlier phases based on the cost of doing the work requiring the full problem to be validated to ensure it makes sense to do the work). Following Validation Phase 4 the feature should already be broken down into the quickest change possible to improve the user’s outcome and be ready for a more detailed review by engineering. During this phase, the DRI will surface issues they intend to prioritize for a milestone by setting the status to
Planning breakdown
. At this point, the appropriate DRI will assign an engineer to further break down and apply weights to that work. Tradeoff decisions can be made and feature issues evolve from validation solutions to clear MVCs that can be delivered in a single milestone. Be sure to document all decisions on issues.
During this phase, the DRI must revisit the
Legal Risk Checklist
(accessible to team members only) to make sure none of their previous determinations during Validation phase 3: Design need revision.
By reviewing and weighing work in the beginning of the Build Track, the DRI is able to make better prioritization tradeoffs and engineering teams can ensure they’ve scoped the right amount of work for the milestone. If an issue enters the
Planning breakdown
state it doesn’t necessarily mean it will be prioritized in the next milestone, the DRI may make a tradeoff decision depending on capacity, and urgency.
Once work has passed the
Planning breakdown
step, the
Ready for development
status,
type::
label, and an upcoming milestone are applied to the issue. If an issue has been broken down, but not yet ready to pull into a milestone you may optionally set the status to
Scheduling
; however, in this state any issue that has the
Ready for development
status without a milestone has an implied status of “waiting to be scheduled”. The DRI will apply
Deliverable
label to issues with a milestone and set to
Ready for development
, signaling acceptance of the issue for that milestone. This process occurs at the
beginning of milestone planning
.
During this phase, it’s important to keep Application Security Engineers informed to ensure that they have visibility into planning schedule. This provides them with sufficient time for planning dynamic testing so they can keep the product manager and development team informed of any time/resource requirements.
Outcomes and Activities
Outcomes
Activities
Well-scoped MVC issues
- Issues are the
SSOT
for all feature development.
- Refine issues into something that can be delivered within a single milestone
- Open follow on issues to track work that is de-prioritized
- Promote existing issues to Epics and open implementation issues for the upcoming milestone
- Review feature issues with contributors
- Consider scheduling a POC or engineering investigation issue
- Make scope tradeoffs to reach for a
right-sized MVC
- Request an issue review to ensure communication is clear and have proposed the
right iteration plan
to execute on the solution.
Prioritized Milestone
- The team should understand what issues should be delivered during the next milestone
- The DRI sets
Ready for development
status,
type::
label, and a milestone signaling intent to prioritize
- The DRI applies
Deliverable
label signaling acceptance of issue in the next milestone - DRI creates a planning issue
Defined Plan
- DRI ensures they are able to understand and effectively plan their own capacity before engineering is truly underway.
Coordinated Planning
Implementation Issue Refinement
- Some teams have found it useful to treat issue refinement as a separate, iterative task from planning breakdown. This separation allows them to focus backlog refinement on the aspects of the original feature that will be delivered first.
- Further refine implementation issues identified in the
Planning breakdown
step by additionally setting the status to
Refinement
.
Build phase 2: Develop & Test
Required Statuses
Status
Usage
In dev
Set after work (including documentation) has begun on the issue. An MR is typically linked to the issue at this point.
In review
Set to indicate that all MRs required to close an issue are in review.
Blocked
Set if at any time during development the issue is blocked. For example: technical issue, open question to PM or PD, cross-group dependency.
Verification
After the MRs in the issue have been merged, this status is set signaling the issue needs to be verified in staging or production.
Awaiting security release
Set after the security issue has passed verification, this status signals that it is ready but awaiting the next
monthly security release
.
Description
The develop and test phase is where we build the features, address bugs or technical debt and test the solutions before launching them. The DRI is directly responsible for
overall prioritization
of a milestone, including bugs and maintenance work; however, the Engineering team is responsible for the implementation using the
engineering workflow
. Engineering owns the
definition of done
and issues are not moved into the next phase until those requirements are met. Keep in mind that many team members are likely to contribute to a single issue and collaboration is key.
This phase begins after work has been broken down, and
prioritized
in Phase 1. Work is completed in priority order as set at the beginning of the milestone. The DRI will assign an issue to an engineer who is responsible for building the feature or addressing a bug or maintenance issue. An engineer can also self-serve and pick up the next priority order issue from the
Ready for development
queue on their team’s board. That engineer will update the issue status to indicate where it’s position in the
development process
.
When an issue is in
In review
state, the Application Security Engineer would help validate the risk mitigations through the non-blocking
application security review process
.
Documentation for the work will be developed by the engineer and the Technical Writer (see
Documentation with code as a workflow
). The Technical Writer should review the documentation as part of the development process. Items discovered during a documentation review should not block issues moving into the next phase. This may drive the creation of follow-on improvement MRs for the documentation, after release.
After the feature code has been merged, the issue should be moved to
Verification
status.
When an issue is in
Verification
state, the responsible engineer will
manually test the feature
in either the Staging or Production environment.
Note: Work deemed out-of-scope or incomplete by engineering is taken back into the
plan phase
for refinement and rescheduling for completion.
Outcomes and Activities
Outcomes
Activities
Feature is built
- DRI checks that
definition of done
is met
- Provide regular status updates to stakeholders
- Provide asynchronous updates to avoid status check-ins and synchronous stand-ups
- Engineers follow the
engineering process
to implement assigned issues.
Feature is tested
- Engineers test features they implement (see
Definition of done
).
- DRI sets testing requirements on the issue.
- DRI follows up on any specific test coverage changes necessary as an outcome of Quad Planning.
- Technical Writers complete a
review
of any developed documentation.
- Application Security Engineer validates the risk mitigations through the non-blocking
application security review process
.
Build phase 3: Launch
Issue Status:
Closed
Required Statuses
Status
Usage
Complete
Set after the feature is deployed to production, and any needed verification is complete.
Description
When the change becomes available in production and any needed verification is complete, the issue is set to
Complete
status so stakeholders know work on it has been completed. Afterward, the DRI coordinates the
release post
and
dogfooding process
when they apply.
Outcomes and Activities
Outcomes
Activities
Feature is available to GitLab.com hosted customers
: After it’s deployed to production (and any feature-flags for it are enabled), the feature is launched and available to GitLab.com hosted customers.
- Code is deployed to production.
-
Feature flag(s)
enabled.
Feature is available to self-managed customers
: The feature will be available in the next scheduled release for self-managed customers to install.
- Code is included in the self-managed release, (
depending upon the cut-off
).
Stakeholders of a feature will know it’s available in production
- After the feature is deployed to production and any needed verification in production is completed, the development team will set the status to
Complete
.
- Product Manager may follow up with individual
stakeholders
to let them know the feature is available.
Customers will be informed about major changes
: When appropriate for a change, a release post item will be written and merged by the Product Manager.
- Product Manager follows the instructions in the
template
, which will then cause it to appear on the
GitLab.com releases page
and be part of the release post.
Continue Dogfooding process
- If the DRI wants to dogfood the feature and it’s ready for internal consumption, the DRI
promotes it internally
.
Experiment results and follow-up issue is created
For experiments, create a
follow-up issue
that will be where results of the test and next-steps are tracked.
Build phase 4: Improve
Label: n/a
Description
After launch, the DRI should pay close attention to product usage data. This starts by ensuring your
AMAU
is instrumented and reporting as you expect. From there consider how the feature has impacted
GMAU
and
SMAU
. At this point you should also solicit customer feedback to guide follow-on iterative improvements, until success metrics are achieved/exceeded and a decision can be made that the product experience is sufficient. To create a combined and ongoing quantitative and qualitative feedback loop, consideration of the outcomes and potential activities below are recommended.
Outcomes and Activities
Outcomes
Activities
Understand Qualitative Feedback
: To know how to improve something, it’s important to understand the qualitative feedback that we’re hearing from users and team members.
- Create a dedicated
feedback issue
(optional).
- Continue
dogfooding process
.
- Review
user feedback in issues
.
- Follow up with
CSMs
and
SAEs
to gather feedback from interested customers.
- Set up follow-up calls with customers to gather more specific feedback.
- Consider running a survey for usability.
Measure Quantitative Impact
: Qualitative data is great, but coupling it with quantitative data can help to paint the full picture of what is going on.
Set up dashboards in Tableau
and review the performance and engagement of your change.
- Update any applicable dashboards in Tableau, if necessary work with the data team for more complex reporting.
- Review
AMAU, GMAU, and SMAU dashboards
to understand if the new feature or improvement has impacted core metrics.
Benchmark the experience
:
Consider performing a
UX Scorecard
to score and benchmark the usability of the experience in the product based on a core set of heuristics and create new issues when identifying opportunities for improvement.
Take action on Learnings
: After you understand the qualitative and quantitative impact, you can take action on your learnings by creating new issues or updating existing open issues with more information.
- Open new issues or revise existing open issues for
follow-on iterations
and improvements.
- Ensure you’ve captured feedback in issues or as updates to your direction pages.
- Share learnings with your group and stage.
- Consider sharing learnings with the broader team.
- Coordinate with your
PMM
to understand if there are any relevant Go-To-Market motions you should consider updating.
- Update experiment follow-up issue with results and specific next steps.
- Potentially create issues or MRs for updates to the documentation site, to provide useful information in advance of potential product updates related to learnings.
Release stages guidelines
Teams should release features as generally available from the start unless there are strong reasons to release them as experimental, beta, or limited availability first.
Product development teams should refrain from making changes that they believe
could create significant risks or friction for GitLab users or the platform, such as:
Risking damage or exfiltration of existing production data accessed by our users.
Destabilizing other parts of the application.
Introducing friction into high Monthly Active User (MAU) areas.
Experiment features
In addition to the
experiment details
for users, experiments:
Are not by default a “scope” or feature-set, nor a “maturity” level or quality bar.
Are a tool project leads can use to validate their feature, most commonly to validate the
problem
.
Are not required, can be skipped and indeed should be skipped if the problem is already validated, for example via user research or other methods.
Shouldn’t be used as a way to get feedback on something that is broken.
Shouldn’t be used to release a feature early.
Not all experiments are expected to become GA.
experiments should follow the scientific method and use a templated structure.
Have a testable hypothesis you need an answer to with clear success/failure criteria defined in advance.
Design an experiment that has the ability to test that hypothesis.
Run the experiment for the shortest possible time period.
Report the results of the experiment (even if it’s just a few lines).
Decide if the experiment was successful or not and next steps.
Should ideally last only 1-2 milestones.
TODO: [DRI needed] Telemetry requirements should be added or linked to here.
TODO: [DRI needed] UX requirements for experiment should be added or linked to here.
TODO: [DRI needed] Engineering requirements for experiment should be added or linked to here.
Offer a way to opt in with minimal friction.
Link out to the
GitLab Testing Agreement
in the opt-in.
Have documentation that reflects that the feature is subject to the
GitLab Testing Agreement
.
Have
UI that reflects the experiment status
.
Have a feedback issue to engage with internal and external users.
Not be announced in a release post.
Be promoted in the user interface through
discovery moments
,
if needed.
All experimental features that
meet the review criteria
must
initiate a PREP Assessment
and complete the
experiment section in the readiness template
.
Beta features
In addition to the
beta details
for users, beta features:
Are not by default a “scope” or feature-set, nor a “maturity” level or quality bar.
Are a tool project leads can use to validate their feature, most commonly to validate the solution.
Should be used when the problem is already validated and we have confidence in the solution but want to verify with customers.
Are not required, and can be skipped.
Shouldn’t be used as a way to get feedback on something that is broken.
Shouldn’t be used to release a feature early.
Have a high likelihood of becoming GA.
Project leads should consider using
Advisory and Executive customer programs
and EAP to recruit beta users.
Project leads should consider how external contributors can participate in betas.
Project leads running betas should define beta exit criteria, ideally before work begins and after discussion with UX and Engineering.
TODO: [DRI needed] Telemetry requirements should be added or linked to here.
TODO: [DRI needed] UX requirements for beta should be added or linked to here.
TODO: [DRI needed] Engineering requirements for beta should be added or linked to here.
Have documentation that reflects the beta status.
Have
UI that reflects the beta status
.
Have a feedback issue to engage with internal and external users.
Be announced in a release post that reflects the beta status, if desired.
Be promoted in the user interface through
discovery moments
,
if needed.
All beta features that
meet the review criteria
must complete all sections up to and including the
beta section in the readiness template
by following the
PREP process
.
Publicly available features
Publicly available features must:
Meet the
review criteria
.
Complete the
PREP process
.
Complete all sections up to and including the
General availability section in the readiness template
.
TODO: [DRI needed] Terms and conditions (or other agreements and legal) added or linked here.
TODO: [DRI needed] Telemetry requirements added or linked to here.
TODO: [DRI needed] Audit event requirements added or linked to here.
TODO: [DRI needed] Geo (disaster recovery) required added or linked to here.
TODO: [DRI needed] SLA added or linked to here.
TODO: [DRI needed] Support level customers can expect added or linked to here.
TODO: [DRI needed] Security requirements added or linked to here.
TODO: [DRI needed] Information on level and number of known bugs allowed added or linked to here.
TODO: [DRI needed] Scalability requirements added or linked to here.
TODO: [DRI needed] Availability requirements added or linked to here.
TODO: [DRI needed] UX requirements added or linked to here.
TODO: [DRI needed] Future deprecation commitments added or linked to here.
TODO: [DRI needed] Readiness as a platform (API, etc) information added or linked to here.
Generally Available
In addition to the publicly available criteria above, GA features:
Must be available on all GitLab platforms (GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed, GitLab Dedicated, GitLab Dedicated for Government).
Provide earlier access
Our
mission is “everyone can contribute”
,
and that is only possible if people outside the company can try a feature. We get higher quality (more diverse) feedback
if people from different organizations try something, so give users the ability to opt in to experimental
features when there is enough value.
Where possible, release an experimental feature externally instead of only testing internally
or waiting for the feature to be in a beta state. We’ve learned that keeping features internal-only
for extended periods of time slows us down unnecessarily.
Experimental features are only shown when people/organizations opt in to experiments,
so we are allowed to make mistakes here and literally experiment.
Experiment and beta exit criteria
To ensure the phases before general availability are as short as possible each phase of experiment,
beta, and limited availability should include exit criteria. This encourages rapid iteration and
reduces
cycle time
.
GitLab Product Managers must take the following into account when deciding what exit criteria
to apply to their experimental and beta features:
Time
: Define an end date at which point the feature will be generally available.
Consider setting a time-bound target metric that will define readiness for exit into general availability.
For example, X number of customers retained MoM over 6 months after launch of experiment,
X% growth of free and paid users in three months since launch beta, or similar.
Be mindful of balancing time to market, user experience, and richness of experience.
Some beta programs have lasted one milestone while others have lasted a couple of years.
Feedback
: Define the minimum number of customers that have been onboarded and interviewed.
Consider also setting a time bound when using user feedback as an exit criteria for leaving a phase.
If a given time period elapses and we can not solicit feedback from enough users,
it is better to ship what we have and iterate on it as generally available at that point rather than maintain a pre-general availability state.
Limited Feature Completion
: Determine if there is functionality that should be completed before moving to general availability.
Be wary of including “just one more” feature. Iteration is easier and more effective with more feedback from more users,
so getting to general availability is preferred.
System Performance metrics
: Determine the criteria that the platform has shown before being ready for general availability.
Examples include response times and successfully handling a specific number of requests per second.
Success criteria
: Not all features will be generally available. It is OK to pivot if early feedback indicates that
a different direction would provide more value or a better user experience. If open questions must be answered
to decide if the feature is worth putting in the product, list and answer those.
For the exit criteria of
AI features
, in addition to the above, see the
UX maturity requirements
.
Contributing to this page
All merge requests to this page require informing Product and Engineering Leadership (see page “maintainers” or codeowners).
To make updates such as grammatical fixes and typos, you can have any approver review and merge.
Feature flags in development of GitLab
NOTE: The content below covers feature flags used by GitLab to deploy its own features, which is not …
Phase template
Track Phase X: Phase Name Label: ~label
Key Participants Role Function DRI TBD Collaborators TBD …
Product Development Budgeting Process
Pre-planning for potential new investments The pre-planning is done in advance of the budget …
Last modified May 22, 2026:
Transition Software Engineer in Test (SET) to Backend Engineer, Quality Department and Engineering Productivity departments clean-up (
8af74dc3
)
View page source
-
Edit this page
-
please
contribute
.