SOURCE: https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/experience-research/
============================================================

Experience Research at GitLab
We deliver end-to-end insights, from Brand to Product, that inform what we build and how we position it, shaping decisions at every stage.
The Experience Research team at GitLab is responsible for conducting User Experience (UX) Research, Brand and Marketing Research, and
Service Design
, with the support of our own
Research Operations (ReOps)
specialists.
Our Strategic Principles
Principle 1: Strategic Focus Over Broad Coverage
We allocate 100% of our research capacity to strategic business areas that drive
differentiation, growth and retention
, meaning we will only be supporting a selection of initiatives or teams from the verticals below:
Brand and Marketing
Core DevOps Workflow
Monetization and Analytics
Infrastructure Platforms
AI
Security and Compliance
Docs Sites
Principle 2: Innovative Insights Over Confirmation Studies
We prioritize research that could reveal game-changing opportunities over studies that confirm what we already suspect with high confidence.
Our research will be hypotheses led, and we prioritize:
High-Risk, Low-Confidence Hypotheses
: Questions where being wrong could cost us significantly, but being right could unlock major opportunities
Differentiation Gaps
: Understanding where users struggle in ways our competitors haven’t solved
Unmet User Needs
: Discovering problems users can’t articulate but would pay to solve
How we work:
We partner with Product, Engineering, Design, Data, Customer Success and Marketing teams to identify knowledge gaps, and validate them
We observe and focus on real user behaviors and needs, and opportunities in core journeys, not edge cases
Principle 3: Sustainable Intelligence Over One-Off Studies
We build instrumentation that provides continuous insights with minimal ongoing effort, enabling faster decision-making.
Our instrumentation strategy:
We work with cross functional partners to identify
critical user experiences
to track
We identify and report openly and frequently on core UX quality metrics and deep-dives for strategic insights intervention
We work with our counterparts to prioritize improvements when metrics drop below defined thresholds
How We Say No
We decline research that:
Doesn’t connect to strategic business areas
Seeks to confirm high-confidence, low-risk assumptions and table-stakes
Can be answered through existing data or quick usability tests
Addresses edge cases affecting a small percentage of users
Instead we offer:
Guidance on self-service research methods, see [this section](### How to Work with UX Research) for more information.
Data analysis support from our analytics partners
Inclusion in future strategic research cycles
Success Metrics
We know our strategy is working when:
Business Stakeholders, from Brand to Product, proactively seek our input on strategic decisions
Our insights directly contribute to measurable improvements in core KPIs and UX Metrics
We can point to
specific competitive advantages
discovered through our research
We Iterate Quarterly
Every quarter, we assess:
Resource Allocation: Are we truly focusing our effort on strategic areas?
Impact Measurement: Which studies led to the biggest business impact?
Principle Refinement: Do these principles need updating based on business changes?
We Do Research, So Can You
Who we research
The Experience Research team researches customers, end users, potential users, stakeholders, competitor users, and specialized user groups to ensure the product meets diverse needs and expectations.
How we research
Using a range of research methodologies (including user interviews, surveys, usability testing, diary studies, and card sorting) we collect raw data on user behaviors, needs, and preferences.
We then apply rigorous data analysis and synthesis to transform this data into valuable insights that inform and shape the design and development of our products.
How we help other GitLab team members do research
Note that UX Researchers are
one of the many
GitLab Team Members who conduct user research. Other roles, such as Product Managers and Product Designers, frequently conduct research with guidance from the Experience Research team. All Research DRIs are supported by our
Research Operations team
to conduct efficient and high-quality research.
If you are planning to lead a research project, you can get started
here
.
How to Work with Experience Research
As a GitLab Customer
Customers: we welcome you to sign up as a research participant or research panelist!  We are always looking for a range of professionals to take part in our studies, and would love to have you sign-up. You can read more about
what to expect as a research participant
, and register your interest in
taking part in future research
.
What you get in return
:
Influence Over Design and Product Decisions
: Your feedback will be heard and considered in future design and product decisions directing anything from feature improvements to product strategy.
Smoother Experience and Better Product
: Your insights will help us shape a product that better fits your day-to-day needs, improving your overall experience and productivity.
As a GitLab internal team
We’d love to collaborate with you, gather your perspective, and partner with you to engage our customers. If your team interacts with customers and users as part of your daily role or make decisions that influence the customer/user experience of GitLab products, we’d love to hear from you!. Here’s how you can partner with us:
Ensure Your Customers Are Represented in Our Research
: You can nominate customers as research participants by sharing their details in the #reops channel or direct your customers to
the Experience Research Panel
to register their interest.
Share what you know through GitLab User Insight Repository
: Share what you learn about your customers in the #experience_research channel, or connect with a designated UX researcher for specific stages or themes.
Identify Areas for Improvement That Need Further Research (unknown)
: If you notice areas that could benefit from deeper exploration, feel free to mention it in the #experience_research channel or contact
the UX researcher for the relevant stage or theme
. Providing a related issue for reference would be a bonus!
Leverage Research Insights to Guide Your Work
: Stay updated by checking out the #experience_research_reports channel for the latest insights. You can also explore
Dovetail
, our research insights management tool, to search by keywords or watch interview session recordings. You can also consult with
the UX researcher for the relevant stage or theme
, to be more informed when making design, product or customer engagement decisions.
What you get in return
:
Informed Decision-Making
: The Experience research team provides valuable insights based on user behavior and feedback, helping internal teams make informed, data-driven decisions throughout the product development process.
Risk Mitigation
: Experience research helps identify potential issues early in the development process, allowing internal teams to address these challenges before they escalate, thereby reducing the risk of costly mistakes or misaligned products.
Do you have questions about Experience Research?
The Experience Research team is here for you! Reach out in the
#experience_research
Slack channel to engage with the team on any research-related topic.
Have questions about logistics around recruiting, scheduling participants, accessing research tools or anything else related to Research Operations? The
#research_operations
channel is the channel for these types of inquiries.
Below is a full list of our Experience Research team handbook content:
Conducting Experience Research at GitLab
Resources for research DRIs
When to conduct Research
Defining goals, objectives, and hypotheses
Problem Validation and methods
Solution Validation and methods
Foundational research
Strategic research at GitLab
Research tools/applications
UX Cloud Sandbox
research in the AI space
Research methods we use at GitLab
Choosing a methodology
Surveys
Designing your survey
Common types of survey questions
Survey question scales
Sample sizes for surveys
Piloting your survey
Qualtrics Tips and Tricks
How to identify low quality data when designing and reviewing your survey
Jobs to be Done
Longitudinal studies
Diary studies
Mental modeling studies
Kano Model for feature prioritization
User story mapping
User journey mapping
Rapid Iterative Testing and Evaluation (RITE)
Usability testing
Usability benchmarking
Unmoderated usability testing
Writing a website usability testing script
UX Bash
Preference testing
Facilitating user interviews
Writing a discussion guide for user interviews
How to create a user persona
Evaluating navigation
Testing navigation: early Solution Validation
First click testing for navigation
Creating a first click study in Qualtrics
RITE testing for navigation
Comparative testing for navigation
Finding participants
How to write an effective screener
The Common Screener: an efficient way to screen for multiple studies
Recruiting participants
Using the UX Research Google Calendar
Attending a research event
Creating and managing a research participant panel
Data and research insights
GitLab Research Library
Finding existing research
Collecting useful data
Using quantitative data to find insights
Analyzing and synthesizing user research data
Analyzing survey verbatim
Research insights
Documenting research insights in Dovetail
Product Analytics for UX Research
Templates
UX research report template (internal link)
User interview note-taking template (internal link)
Usability testing script template (internal link)
Usability testing rainbow analysis chart template (internal link)
Recommendations alignment Figjam template (internal link)
Usability benchmarking alignment Figjam template (internal link)
Auto Time on Task (internal link)
Checklists
User interviews (internal link)
Surveys (internal link)
Usability testing (internal link)
UX Research training
Interview Carousel - Becoming a better interviewer 15 minutes at a time
UX Research shadowing
When to conduct UX Research training (internal LevelUp course)
Resources for UX Researchers
How the UX Research team operates at GitLab
UX Researcher pairings
Research prioritization
The IP Assignment and when to show it
How to fill in for a Research Operations Specliaist
UX Research growth and development
Non-Disclosure Agreements for UX Research
How to publish a blog post to encourage community contributions on Actionable Insights
How to Conduct UX Research Workshops
How to use AI in UX research
Resources for UX Research Operations Coordinators
UXR Operations Coordination at GitLab
Recruitment methods
Research participation gratuities
Getting the word out about research insights
ReOps procurement best practices
Finding SaaS users
UX research recruiting email tips
Measures and processes the UX Research team is responsible for
User Satisfaction Plus (USAT+) Survey
System Usability Scale
USAT+ Responder Outreach
Tracking research velocity
Tracking gold, silver, and bronze UX research projects
Tracking actionable insights
Rapid Validations
Analyzing and synthesizing user research data
Guidelines for how to analzye survey verbatim
Analyzing survey verbatim
Guidelines for how to analyze survey verbatim
Attending a research event
Best practices when attending a research event.
Choosing a research methodology
How to choose a research methodology: detail vs frequency, user characteristics, and fidelity of insight
Collecting useful data
You can use your research objectives to create categories you can reference as you take notes to make sure you are capturing the most salient information.
Community contributions for Actionable Insights
Engaging the wider GitLab community to get Actionable Insights fixed
Comparative testing for navigation
Comparative, qualitative usability testing enables you to get feedback on 2-3 designs early in the …
Creating a first click study in Qualtrics
This page details how to set-up first click tests in Qualtrics.
Creating and managing a research participant panel
How to create and manage a research participant panel
Defining goals, objectives, and hypotheses
Conducting user research takes a significant amount of preparation before you even begin asking users anything.
Diary studies
What are diary studies and when to use them
Doing UX research in the AI space
How to conduct UX research in the Artificial Intelligence (AI) space, including research guidelines.
Evaluating navigation
When proposing navigation changes, it's important to proceed with high confidence. We evaluate how changes perform compared to our existing experience using a set of defined methods.
Facilitating user interviews
Tips and tricks for succesfully conducting user interviews.
Finding SaaS users
How we target SaaS research participants to meet specific criteria
First click testing for navigation
What is first click testing? First click testing is used to determine if participants are able to …
Foundational research
Foundational research (also referred to as generative research, exploratory research, pathfinding …
GitLab Research Library
Your central hub for UX research insights, findings, and knowledge discovery.
How the UX Research team operates at GitLab
Our team structure, working model, resource allocation, and more
How to Conduct UX Research Workshops
The UX Research workshop process at GitLab
How to find existing research
Ways to find existing research insights.
How to recruit UX Research participants
How to find the right participants for research studies at GitLab
How to write an effective screener
How to write an effective UX research screener at GitLab
Interview Carousel - Becoming a better interviewer 15 minutes at a time
A lightweight and fun training to improve your user interviewing skills
Kano Survey for feature prioritization
Kano model provides a simple and powerful way how to think about the features that we plan to build.
Longitudinal studies
What are longitudinal studies and when to use them
Mental modeling
A brief overview of how we do mental modeling research at GitLab
Preference testing
How to determine which design your participant prefers.
Problem validation and methods
How to conduct problem validation research at GitLab
Problem Validation research for single-stage-group initiatives
Problem Validation research for single-stage-group initiatives usually focuses on specific behaviors relating to one stage group, such as: How do Release Managers do their job?
Product Analytics for UX Research
This page provides useful information and best practices for team members interested in using product analytics as part of user experience research projects.
Rapid Iterative Testing and Evaluation (RITE)
Using the RITE methodology at GitLab
Rapid Validations ("Rapids")
A quick validation method that offers passable confidence when we need to move fast.
Research insights
Research insights are the collective findings and learnings that come from a research study.
Research prioritization
How UX Researchers priortize projects
Resources for Research DRIs
All you need to know to run a research study at GitLab.
Service Design at GitLab
Service Design helps GitLab connect teams, match business goals with user needs, and create better experiences inside and outside the platform — leading to happier users and customers, fewer support tickets, and driving deeper adoption.
Solution Validation and methods
Solution validation research critically assesses if the product/feature/design has indeed solved the problem that was initially intended to be solved
Strategic research at GitLab
What is Strategic research? Strategic research is focused on answering future facing questions about …
Surveys
Using surveys as a UX research method
Testing navigation: early Solution Validation
When considering navigation changes, it's important to test ideas early and efficiently. This is a guide to support early solution validation projects in the Foundations team.
Tracking actionable insights
How we track actionable insights derived from UX research studies.
Tracking gold, silver, and bronze UX research projects
How we track research research projects, by service level.
Tracking research velocity
How we track research velocity.
Unmoderated usability testing
Using unmoderated usability testing at GitLab.
Usability benchmarking
The usability benchmarking process at GitLab
Usability testing
Conducting usability testing at GitLab
User story mapping
User Story mapping is a powerful way to visualize how people are using your product or feature holistically and organize individual stories to that journey.
Using quantitative data to find insights
This page defines quantitative data, describes the primary advantages and disadvantages of using quantitative data in UX research, describes best practices, and provides examples for quantitative analysis.
Using RITE to test navigation
Rapid Iterative Testing and Evaluation (RITE) is a usability testing method in which you evaluate a …
Using the UX Research Google Calendar
How to use the UX Research Google Calendar so that others can attend your research sessions.
UX Bash
A quick and efficient way to identify bugs and improve the user experience
UX Cloud Sandbox
How to sign up and use the UX department's cloud sandbox for usability testing.
UX Research growth and development
The UX Research team has added two exercises in addition to GitLab's Career Developement process
UX Research shadowing
All new Product Managers and Designers at GitLab should complete research shadowing as a part of their onboarding before conducting independent research.
UX Research tools/applications
Tools we use, how to find existing research, tracking research findings, and more.
UX Researcher pairings
An opt-in offering for UX Researchers to pair up with another UX Researcher where they can provide and receive feedback from each other.
When to conduct UX Research
Learn when it is appropriate to conduct UX Research for your team.
Writing a discussion guide for user interviews
A discussion guide is a set of questions and topics that you would like to discuss with a participant during a user interview
Writing a website usability testing script
How to create a usability testing script at GitLab
Last modified April 17, 2026:
New handbook page for GitLab Research Library (
0499f7bb
)
View page source
-
Edit this page
-
please
contribute
.