SOURCE: https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/security/
============================================================

Security at GitLab
Security Vision and Mission
Our vision is to transparently lead the world to secure outcomes.
Our mission is to enable everyone to innovate and succeed on a safe, secure, and trusted DevSecOps platform. This will be achieved through 5 security operating principles:
Accelerate business success with a focus on:
Prioritize ‘boring’, iterative solutions that minimize risk
Find ways to say Yes
Understand goals before recommending solutions
Use GitLab first
Efficient operations with a focus on:
Technical controls over handbook rules
Leverage automation first (robots over humans)
Responsible decisions (Spending, Tooling, Staffing, etc) over low ROI (return on investment) decisions
Reusable or repeatable over singular solutions
Transparency with a focus on:
Responsible protection of MNPI (material non-public information)
Evangelize
dogfooding
of GitLab publicly
Lead with metrics
Balance security with usefulness
Risk Reduction with a focus on:
Secure by default
Preventative controls over detective controls
Solving root causes over treating symptoms
Visibility through Coverage, Discoverability, Observability
Collaborative Culture with a focus on:
Working together on common solutions
Solve shared problems with shared solutions
Simplifying language for everyone to understand
Avoiding security jargon
Seek opportunities to help others succeed
Scaling through enablement and usage of AI:
Enable safe AI adoption at speed for the enterprise and platform
Deploy AI to detect and prevent threats faster and automate workflows and processes
Embrace and incorporate AI productivity tooling to work smarter each day
Division Structure
The Security Division provides essential security operational services, is directly engaged in the development and release processes, and offers consultative and advisory services to better enable the business to function while minimising risk.
To reflect this, we have structured the Security Division around four key tenets, which drive the structure and the activities of our group. These are :
Product Security
Security Operations
Corporate Security
Security Assurance
Application Security
Infrastructure Security
Security Platforms and Architecture
Vulnerability Management
Data Security
Security Incident Response Team (SIRT)
Trust and Safety
Red Team
Threat Intelligence
Signals Engineering
Security Logging
Corporate Security
Helpdesk Support
Tech Stack Systems
Engineering Teams
Field Security
Security Compliance
Security Governance
Security Risk
Secure the Product - The Product Security Department
The
Product Security Department
is primarily focused on Securing the Product. This reflects the Security Division’s current efforts to be involved in the Application development and Release cycle for Security Releases, Infrastructure Security, and our HackerOne bug bounty program.
The term “Product” is interpreted broadly and includes the GitLab application itself and all other integrations and code that is developed internally to support the GitLab application for the multi-tenant SaaS. Our responsibility is to ensure all aspects of GitLab that are exposed to customers or that host customer data are held to the highest security standards, and to be proactive and responsive to ensure world-class security in anything GitLab offers.
Protect the Company - The Security Operations Department
Security Operations Department
teams are primarily focused on protecting GitLab the business and GitLab’s platform. This encompasses protecting company property as well as to prevent, detect and respond to risks and events targeting the business and our platform. This department includes the Security Incident Response Team (SIRT) and the Trust and Safety team.
These functions have the responsibility of shoring up and maintaining the security posture of GitLab’s platform to ensure enterprise-level security is in place to protect our new and existing customers.
Assure the Customer - The Security Assurance Department
The
Security Assurance Department
is comprised of the teams noted above. They target Customer Assurance projects among their responsibilities. This reflects the need for us to provide resources to our customers to assure them of the security and safety of GitLab as an application to use within their organisation and as a enterprise-level SaaS. This also involves providing appropriate support, services and resources to customers so that they trust GitLab as a Secure Company, as a Secure Product, and Secure SaaS
Protect the Organization - Corporate Security
GitLab is both a company and a product. The
Corporate Security
department focuses on implementing and protecting the information technology (IT) related systems that the company uses to conduct business internally, and provides the hardware, software, and tools that our team members and 3rd party service providers (aka contractors) need to be productive and get their job done efficiently. The configurations that we implement for team members internally are designed to protect our customers and their data.
We have a 24x5
technical support helpdesk
for team members and have engineers that configure and maintain many of our company-wide
tech stack applications
.
We invest heavily in
device trust, identity management, and infrastructure governance
to provide the highest level of security assurance for the administrators of our product and ensure all appropriate controls are in place when handling customer data.
Contacting the Team
Reporting vulnerabilities and security issues
For information regarding GitLab’s
HackerOne bug bounty program
, and creating and scheduling security issues, please see our
engaging with security
page and our
Responsible Disclosure Policy
.
Reporting an Incident
If an urgent security incident has been identified or you suspect an incident may have occurred, please refer to
Engaging the Security Engineer On-Call
.  Examples include, but are not limited to:
Lost or stolen devices
Leaked credentials
Endpoint compromise or infection
Exposure of sensitive GitLab data
GitLab provides a
panic@gitlab.com
email address for team members to use in situations when Slack is inaccessible and immediate security response is required.
This email address is only accessible to GitLab team members and can be reached from their gitlab.com or personal email address as listed in Workday. Using this address provides an excellent way to limit the damage caused by a loss of one of these devices.
Additionally if a GitLab team member experiences a personal emergency the People Group also provides an
emergency contact email
.
Ransomware
For an overview of the communication and response process for a suspected ransomware attack, please see our
Responding to Ransomware
page.
Receive notification of security releases
To receive security release blog notifications delivered to your inbox, visit our
contact us
page.
To receive release notifications via RSS, subscribe to our
security release RSS feed
or our
RSS feed for all releases
.
For additional information regarding security releases, please visit the Delivery Team’s
security releases
page.
Other Frequently Used GitLab.com Projects
Security crosses many teams in the company, so you will find
~security
labeled
issues across all GitLab projects, especially:
gitlab-foss
gitlab
infrastructure
production
When opening issues, please follow the
Creating New Security Issues
process for using labels and the confidential flag.
Last modified April 24, 2026:
updated external HB page for accuracy (
eed43a98
)
View page source
-
Edit this page
-
please
contribute
.