SOURCE: https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/business-technology/enterprise-applications/pmo/
============================================================

Enterprise Applications - PMO
About Us
We are a global team dedicated to developing and managing cutting edge IT systems and business processes.
The Enterprise Applications PMO oversees portfolio and program management within the EntApps organization. We collaborate with business teams during planning activities to align with top priorities. Our services include portfolio, program and resource management, along with project tracking and reporting.
Our Team
Explore our team’s structure in the
organization chart
.
Our Services
IT EntApps Portfolio Planning & Prioritization: A 5-Step Framework
The IT EntApps Portfolio planning & prioritization process has 5 steps:
Portfolio of Projects
Prioritization
T-Shirt Sizing
Resources & Capacity Planning
Project Commits
Portfolio of Projects
This section provides an inventory of all the committed and planned projects for IT Enterprise Applications. Internal team members can use the
IT EntApps Portfolio tracker
to track in-flight initiatives. EntApps portfolio priorities must align with the company objectives.
Project Prioritization
The
IT EntApps Project Prioritization tracker
serves as a centralized tool to log and manage new projects and initiatives. The PMO team evaluates these entries during the EntApps Monthly Business Review sessions.
T-Shirt Sizing
Involves identifying the project’s:
Estimated Level Of Effort (LOE)
Duration
Roles & Responsibilities
Resources & Capacity Planning
Achieved by:
Identifying all resource within the team
Estimating the capacity requirements for activities such as “Keeping the Lights On” (KTLO), administrative tasks, management, and project work.
Project Commits
All projects added to the
IT EntApps Portfolio tracker
are assigned resources based on priority and categorized under the following labels:
Committed
: Projects that are in-flight / being worked on.
Planned
: Projects that will be picked up once the resources from a committed project becomes available.
Release Management
The release management plan helps the IT EntApps team to:
Establish a standardized process.
Implement the release management strategy.
Maintain consistency and predictability in releases.
Communicate changes regularly and transparently.
Release Calendar
How We Work
Governance and Program Management Methodology
Visit the
Governance and IT Program Management
page to understand the methodology adopted by the IT EntApps PMO team for all GitLab EntApps programs aimed at achieving the following objectives:
Ensure robust results and efficient execution.
Scope projects effectively, aligning with iterative values.
Engage relevant stakeholders to foster collaboration.
Maintain transparent and compliant documentation practices.
Project Epics & Issues
When assigned to a project, the IT EntApps PMO team is responsible for creating and maintaining the project
Epic
. A single parent Epic is created together with (up to) 5
child Epics
, each representing a distinct phase of the System Development Lifecycle (SDLC).
Issues
are used as a means to collaborate on ideas, troubleshoot problems, and strategize for their tasks. By using issues, teams can share and discuss proposals internally or involve external collaborators in the process.
To maintain uniformity across all PMO-led projects, the team follows the same
Epic templates
.
System Development Lifecycle (SDLC)
The System Development Lifecycle outlines a structured set of activities conducted at each project stage.
Intake
The Intake process begins with the completion of a business requirements document (BRD). This phase bridges the gap between business stakeholders defining project goals and the development team responsible for implementation.
Define
The Define phase focuses on articulating the business problem and establishing the
definition of done
. It includes identifying use cases, affected technologies, and requirements. The primary goal is to document processes and impacted areas rather than resolve every detail. Before moving to the Design phase, approval is obtained from key stakeholders to ensure accuracy and completeness of business requirements.
Design
The Design phase establishes a roadmap for the future state of the project. The project team collaborates with stakeholders to refine requirements and design processes that align with business goals. This phase addresses outstanding details and resolves any questions from earlier stages.
Build
During the Build phase, the project team collaborates with stakeholders to develop scalable solutions that meet business requirements while adhering to best practices.
Test
In the Test phase, the project team works with stakeholders to create test scripts and oversee the User Acceptance Testing (UAT) process, ensuring solutions meet the defined requirements.
Deploy
The Deploy phase involves creating a comprehensive deployment plan in collaboration with implementation teams. Activities include finalizing launch plans, enabling users, and managing go-live communications to ensure a smooth transition.
Hypercare
Hypercare is the phase immediately following the deployment or launch of a new process in production. During this period, enhanced support is provided to ensure a seamless transition and successful adoption of the new system.
Maintenance
The Maintenance phase begins after the new process becomes fully operational. It ensures the process continues to function as designed, with repairs or upgrades performed as necessary.
Issue Boards
IT EntApps teams use GitLab
issue boards
to strategically plan, organize, and visualize their work. To learn more about how IT EntApps teams manage issue boards, refer to
each team’s respective page
.
Labels
The IT EntApps teams use
labels
to efficiently categorize issues and epics. A well-maintained, concise label list facilitates dynamic filtering and streamlined management of work. All labels are created within the
gitlab.com/gitlab-com
top-level group, making them applicable across all projects.
To better organize and manage their work, the IT teams have different label categories. Click on each category to view the current labels utilized by the IT teams:
Priority labels
Team labels
Status labels
Project labels
Catalog labels
Service Desk labels
IT EntApps Planning Process
There are several activities that take place to prepare for new commits and report on the current ones:
Project List & Priorities from Business
: The IT EntApps PMO team reaches out to Business stakeholders to get a list of projects and priorities for upcoming work.
IT EntApps PMO & Leadership - Upcoming Priorities Review
: The PMO team reviews the business projects and priorities with IT EntApps Leadership to add initiatives to the upcoming commits tracker.
Cross Functional Meeting - Commits Review
: The IT EntApps PMO team hosts the
IT EntApps Portfolio Planning
mmeetings to review the list of projects and priorities with Business stakeholders.
Commits - Corporate Rank
: The IT EntApps Leadership works with the business leaders to rank the initiatives in order of priority for the company.
Upcoming Commits Shared with the Business
: IT EntApps PMO team shares the upcoming commits with the Business stakeholders.
FY25 Q4 Calendar
FY26 Q1 Calendar
FY26 Q2 Calendar
FY26 Q3 Calendar
FY26 Q4 Calendar
Meetings
Meetings Protocol
The team follows
GitLab meeting practices and standards
.
Every meeting has an agenda.
All agendas are stored in the PMO Team Meetings
shared drive
.
The IT PMO team lead all meetings related to projects.
IT EntApps Governance
IT EntApps Leadership Meeting
Purpose
: Every week the IT Leadership team has a dedicated time to sync up and discuss current activities (urgent and important) that impacts the whole team.
Frequency
: Weekly, on Mondays
The time of this meeting may vary to accommodate the different timezones of the IT / Business Technology team members.
Participants
: VP, IT (host), PMO, Enterprise Applications Leadership.
IT EntApps All Hands
Purpose
: Share company updates, stay connected, and receive feedback.
Frequency
: Quarterly (on the first week of the new quarter)
Participants
: VP, IT (host), all IT cross functional teams.
Stakeholder Management Meetings
Project Status Meetings
Purpose
: For each project led by the IT PMO team, a Project Status Meeting is organized to review the project’s current state, address ongoing tasks, and discuss any blockers.
Frequency
: Weekly or every 2 weeks
Participants
: IT EntApps PMO (host), Business DRI(s), Project Subject Matter Experts (SMEs)
IT EntApps Portfolio Review Meetings (Lead to Cash, CRO and G&A)
Purpose
: During these meetings the IT PMO team discuss roadmap & timelines, shifts in priorities and alignment to goals.
Frequency
: Monthly (on the third week of each month)
Participants
: IT EntApps PMO (host), Business DRI(s).
IT EntApps Portfolio Planning (Lead to Cash, CRO and G&A)
Purpose
: Discuss roadmap & timelines, shifts in priorities, alignment to goals. This is a strategic meeting to ensure that teams are aligned with their key business partners and have clarity on our shared roadmap.
Frequency
: Quarterly (on the third week of the month before quarter end)
Participants
: IT EntApps PMO (host), Business & IT EntApps Leadership.
How To Connect With Us
IT EntApps PMO Slack Channels
#entapps-portfolio-planning
is the primary channel for all EntApps Portfolio related conversations. This is where GitLab team members can link to their issues, ask for help, direction, and get general feedback from members of the PMO team.
Governance and IT Program Management
Describes the program methodology for GitLab IT programs to ensure strong results and execution in an efficient way, proper scoping consistent with our value of iteration, correct stakeholders consistent with our value of collaboration and proper documentation for compliance consistent with our transparency value.
Last modified January 5, 2026:
PMO Page FY27 Calendar (
0330ea0a
)
View page source
-
Edit this page
-
please
contribute
.